

____________________________________________________________

Table of contents

1. Determined mall owner, tenants rebuild after riots: A story of business revival on Lake Street

2. GEORGE FLOYD'S SEARCH FOR SALVATION: EVERYBODY KNEW HIM AS A POPULAR ATHLETE WITH A GENTLE SPIRIT. BUT OPPORTUNITIES FOR GEORGE FLOYD WERE FEW IN THE IMPOVERISHED THIRD WARD OF HOUSTON, AND RACISM A CONSTANT BARRIER. AFTER YEARS OF STRUGGLES, HE JOINED A PIPELINE OF MEN FROM THE NEIGHBORHOOD SEEKING REDEMPTION IN MINNEAPOLIS. FLOYD DIDN'T COME TO CHANGE THE WORLD. HE THOUGHT HE WAS SAVING HIS LIFE.

3. GARDENS FOR GOOD: ONE IN A SERIES ; FEEDING THE NEIGHBORS ; DURING A DIFFICULT SUMMER, CITY DWELLERS TRANSFORMED URBAN BOULEVARDS INTO GARDENS TO CREATE A SOURCE OF FOOD AND CONNECTION.

4. ARTISTS OF THE YEAR: 20 WAYS MINNESOTA ARTISTS MET THE CHALLENGES OF 2020

5. 2020 IN REVIEW: MUSIC SCENE WAS PUT TO THE TEST IN 2020 ; LOOKING BACK ON THE MOST TRYING YEAR EVER IN MINNESOTA MUSIC, INCLUDING THE 10 ALBUMS THAT ROSE ABOVE.

6. GEORGE FLOYD: INSPIRING CHANGE ; LAST IN A SERIES ; WHEN SPORTS AND PROTEST ARE MERGED ; THE LYNX HELPED SET THE STAGE FOR ATHLETES SPEAKING OUT ABOUT SOCIAL JUSTICE.

7. App helps keep people out of jail by sending court-date reminders: Hennepin County public defenders and clients use it to stay in touch, too.

8. GEORGE FLOYD: INSPIRING CHANGE ; FOURTH IN A SERIES ; THE GREAT OUTDOORS AS A HEALER

9. TALK VS. ACTION ON CAMPUS EQUITY: PACE OF CHANGE AT MINNESOTA'S COLLEGES ISN'T QUICK ENOUGH FOR SOME.

10. GEORGE FLOYD: INSPIRING CHANGE ; THIRD IN A SERIES ; MORE PARENTS SEEKING BOOKS TO TALK ABOUT RACE ; LIBRARIAN IS SEEING A HEIGHTENED DEMAND FOR CHILDREN'S BOOKS THAT WILL HELP START CONVERSATIONS.

11. GEORGE FLOYD: INSPIRING CHANGE ; SECOND IN A SERIES ; A PLATFORM FOR BLACK-OWNED PRODUCTS ; AFTER FOUNDING SUPPORT NETWORKS, JESSICA WINNIE NOW IS SHOWCASING GOODS IN MN BLACK BOX.

12. AG office defends handling of Floyd evidence: Prosecutors say motion to delay trial is an attempt by defense attorneys to buy more time.

13. Kwanzaa in 2020: Even dampened by pandemic, the African American celebration will be observed in homes and virtually after George Floyd's death.

14. GEORGE FLOYD: INSPIRING CHANGE ; FIRST IN A SERIES ; ARTISTS LEAD THE CHANGE ; HOW DID GEORGE FLOYD'S DEATH ALTER THE WAY WE THINK ABOUT THE WORLD? ARTISTS, FOR ONE, HAVE STEPPED UP AS HEALERS AND CHANGE AGENTS.

15. Judge affirms Floyd livestreaming: Cahill says alternatives fail to meet constitutional standards of a public trial.

16. 2020 IN REVIEW: BEST MUSIC OF THE WORST YEAR ; OUR CRITICS AGREED ON FIONA APPLE'S SONIC OPUS AND THE BOLT-CUTTING VALUE OF 2020'S OTHER GREAT ALBUMS AND SONGS.

17. State's racist past - and present

18. Mpls. safety plan forged through compromise: Week of harried votes produced a budget with reforms that won't gut police staff.

19. Defense wants Floyd case prosecutors sanctioned: Attorneys say the sharing of evidence was delayed; they want trial moved to July.

20. George Floyd billboard rejected by Clear Channel: Identical one went up in Times Square in October.

21. Teen who shot Floyd video is honored

22. Split St. Paul Council OKs budget that avoids layoffs

23. Firmly divided on policing, Mpls. faces budget decision

24. MINNSPIRATIONS: PLACING HIS TRUST IN GOSPEL MUSIC

25. Carjackings skyrocket in Mpls.: Such attacks were up 537% compared with last November, worrying residents.

____________________________________________________________

Document 1 of 25

Determined mall owner, tenants rebuild after riots: A story of business revival on Lake Street

Author: MEITRODT, JEFFREY

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/determined-mall-owner-tenants-rebuild-after-riots/docview/2474363145/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=08952825&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=Determined+mall+owner%2C+tenants+rebuild+after+riots&amp;aulast=MEITRODT%2C+JEFFREY&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: At the corner of Lake Street and Nicollet Avenue in Minneapolis, workers are erasing the scars left by one of the most turbulent weeks in Minnesota history.
A contractor sands the new facade that hangs over a Subway restaurant owned by a Cambodian immigrant. A few doors down, electricians are hooking up laundry machines at Best Wash, owned by a Chinese native. Another crew is hanging wallboard at the Mexican bakery.
Highland Plaza Shopping Center has buzzed with activity since August, when its owner decided that waiting to rebuild was the worst thing he could do for his tenants, most of whom came to America for a fresh start.
This blocklong strip center, situated between the old Kmart and the Police Department's Fifth Precinct station, is one of more than 1,200 commercial properties ransacked or destroyed in Minneapolis and St. Paul during the riots that followed the death of George Floyd in May. Several tenants at Highland Plaza plan to usher in the new year by flinging open their newly installed glass doors in as little as two weeks.
"It takes a lot of trust to go through this," said Gina Ahn, whose Korean-born parents bought the Variety Beauty Supply store at Highland Plaza just a few months before it was looted. "But our landlord really stepped up."
Many landlords have done little or nothing with their riot-damaged Lake Street properties, leaving large parts of this once-thriving thoroughfare devoid of activity.
Some merchants have been left homeless after their landlords evicted them, sold out or chose not to rebuild. Other Lake Street tenants have closed permanently instead of trying to rebuild during a pandemic that is crushing the economy.
Tom Roberts, longtime owner of Highland Plaza, thought about giving up. He has always nursed dreams of selling the center to a condo or apartment developer, and he wondered if this was the right time to let someone else take over.
But Roberts couldn't walk away from the immigrant business owners who occupy most of his mall. He has known some of these entrepreneurs for more than 20 years. A few were so poor when they started out that they slept in their shops after a long day's work. Roberts has helped them solve tax problems, lent them money, watched some become wealthy and even attended their weddings.
"I am personally connected with a lot of these families," said Roberts, who turned 69 in November. "I felt an obligation to rebuild and help them out."
The struggles involving the rebirth of Highland Plaza are playing out across the Twin Cities, as landlords wrestle with when, or whether, to rebuild. Property owners say fears of more civil unrest are scaring away potential tenants and even some construction workers.
For Roberts, the road to recovery has been challenging. Two of his tenants -- Office Depot and Sprint -- abandoned their spaces after the riots, even though their leases still run for more than two years. Finding new tenants has been difficult.
Communication is also a struggle. Some of Roberts' tenants -- who immigrated from six countries -- come to site meetings with interpreters to help them understand the complex rebuilding decisions they must make. One tenant doesn't own a computer.
Insurance carriers have been slow to pay. Though Roberts has no complaints about his insurer, some of his tenants have waited so long to get claims paid they're not sure they'll reopen. Some will have to draw heavily from their savings to cover the bills.
Despite daunting obstacles, all seven of Highland's immigrant business owners want to reopen. Some are reinvesting to make sure a second generation will have a business to run.
"It is a good opportunity for a younger generation of my family," said Kim Seng, 75, whose nephew will be taking over his Subway franchise at Highland Plaza. "It may not be so good in 2021, but it will be good in 2022 and 2023."
The toll of the riots
The first rioters arrived at Highland Plaza on May 28, three days after George Floyd was killed while being arrested by Minneapolis police.
It was shortly after 2 a.m. when a car pulled up outside the A to Z Gas Stop. Four men broke into the convenience store, loaded the back seat of a car with stolen merchandise and took off five minutes later when the police arrived, security footage shows. Other looters returned within an hour, but once again, the police showed up and made arrests.
That was the last time police stopped anybody from looting the shopping center.
Joe Zerka, whose father opened A to Z in 1997 after moving to Minnesota from Lebanon, was at Menards a few hours after the break-in. He filled his pickup with $1,000 worth of plywood to board up his store and other family properties. Other Highland merchants quickly followed suit. But the barriers did little to deter rioters, who used sledgehammers to bust their way into Highland stores on May 29.
"We marched peacefully forever," shouted one protester, according to video footage of the riots. "And now what? You are getting what you deserve."
Some Highland merchants put up a fight. At the Best Wash laundromat, two employees stayed behind to fend off rioters by shouting at them through the plywood. Nobody made it inside, though the business was damaged by fires that broke out in adjacent spaces.
Ahn knew it was a losing battle. The crowds were too big, too out of control. Earlier in the week, Ahn and her father were overwhelmed when they tried keeping rioters out of their 7 Mile Fashion store at Hi-Lake Shopping Center, 2 miles away. Her father was hit in the head with a fire extinguisher when he blocked the door. A woman pointed a gun at one of her employees.
Roberts was watching the violence unfold on television that Friday night from his home in Eden Prairie when he decided to make his stand.
"I said, 'This is nuts. Where are the cops and the National Guard? I am going down there,' " Roberts recalled.
Roberts drove to the shopping center in his Cadillac Escalade, forcing his way through hundreds of angry people. Then he spotted a reporter from KARE-11, who put him on live TV.
"What I want to tell people right now is that if the governor and the mayor are not going to take care of this problem, people will," Roberts said, as the crowd surrounding him cheered. "People will uprise over this. … People make their business here. They are Korean. They are Black people. They are immigrants. They have worked their [expletive] lives off trying to make this thing happen."
The National Guard was on the streets a few hours later, but it was too late for Highland Plaza. By Saturday morning, rioters had set fires in six stores. Other Highland merchants were inundated with smoke and water from the sprinklers, which ran for 20 hours.
Although all of the immigrant tenants expressed outrage at Floyd's treatment by the police, some said they also feel betrayed by the neighborhood.
"Seeing my store burning -- that almost broke me," said Ahn, whose family lost three of its four stores to the riots. "I thought we were part of the community. We've seen people grow up. So it was very hurtful at first."
The rebuilding begins
In September, three months after the fires at Highland Plaza were put out, the smell of smoke is still so strong that visitors have to change their clothes after walking inside one of the gutted stores.
For weeks, powerful air scrubbers have been recirculating the air through filters to remove soot and mold. As Roberts walks past one of the circular vents, the wind blows the baseball cap off his head. It will take four months and cost more than $300,000 to finish cleaning the property.
Though he owns four other strip malls and has been doing real estate deals for more than 40 years, Roberts has never undertaken a project of this magnitude. Initially, he underestimated the damage. Although he knew he couldn't reopen in June, as some tenants hoped, Roberts figured he could get a few stores ready before Thanksgiving.
Nothing comes easy on a rebuild like this, said Diane Leverentz, a project manager with Classic Construction, the contractor in charge of the $5 million project.
"It's always easier to level it and start over," Leverentz said. "The unforeseens on a job like this are insane."
By reusing parts of the shopping center, Roberts will save about $4 million in construction costs. Even at that price, Roberts said, he will still come close to maxing out his insurance policy.
Money is a constant concern. At weekly site visits, Roberts pores over invoices that he has covered with red ink, questioning charges for as little as $186. He is a demanding boss, and his contractors quickly grow wary of his sharp tongue.
In October, he hollers when he discovers that Classic mistakenly put in an extra stoop he didn't approve.
"I'm not going to pay for it," he tells Leverentz. "How many times have we gone over this?"
Leverentz and her partner on the job, Corbett Larson, said they wake up every night worrying about Highland. Leverentz now keeps a notebook by her bed to jot down her thoughts so she can go back to sleep. Larson said he wouldn't have taken the Highland project if he had known what he was in for.
Roberts agreed he can be a tough client. "Once in a while I get a little more upset than I need to get," he said. "But I get over it very quickly."
Moldy shelving
Although many of his merchants struggle with English, Roberts doesn't have trouble communicating with anybody except his biggest returning tenant, Dollar Tree.
Roberts has been sending Dollar Tree regular progress reports, including photos, but he wonders if anybody is looking at them. In October, days before the company was scheduled to take back its space, Roberts receives a "punch list" of work Dollar Tree wants done. Among the chores: remove rotten merchandise from freezers and coolers. Roberts' team did that months ago.
On Oct. 27, the company sends district manager Justin Olsen to the site. Roberts begins griping as soon as Olsen walks into his empty store, now sanitized and gleaming like new construction.
"We've had some confusion," Roberts says, pointing to the punch list, which he calls a "joke."
Olsen agrees the requests are "ludicrous."
"In defense of the company, we probably have 60 or 70 stores that were exposed to civil unrest this year," Olsen says, adding that Dollar Tree has been overwhelmed by the work needed to reopen them.
After touring the rebuilt store, Olsen tells Roberts his bosses in Virginia "are very pleased at how fast and easy this has been."
Two days later, Dollar Tree sends a Canadian contractor, Roy Dominique, to the site. Dominique, who will install all of the merchandise racks, brags that he was able to finish another Dollar Tree store in nine days.
In that case, though, everything was new and sitting in the store when he showed up. At Highland Plaza, he's been asked to reuse the original equipment. Dominique heads to the parking lot, where the shelves have been sitting in 30-foot storage containers for five months.
As Dominique cracks the first door open, the smell of mold billows out. He spots green patches on the peg boards and soot and burn marks on the shelves. "It's salvageable, but it would take a lot of work," he says. "And I don't have the time."
The company, he says, will have to replace everything.
Wrangling with insurers
As the contractors rip up cracked cement and cut out moldy wallboard, one of the thorniest questions is who pays for what.
Roberts is on the hook for most of the work, but tenants are responsible for certain costs. Everybody has insurance, but the money is slow in coming and some tenants were woefully underinsured.
Daniel and Sara Ahn will pull about $1 million out of savings to rebuild their three 7 Mile Fashion stores. "That is supposed to be their retirement money," said their daughter, Gina, noting her parents are both 65.
Roberts is most worried about Cost Cutters and Cheng's Chinese Garden, which are scheduled to reopen in mid-January. Both are insured through State Farm, but their cases were assigned to separate adjusters. Roberts is livid when he hears that one adjuster signed off on covering $3,000 in flooring at the Chinese restaurant, while the other adjuster won't pay for new floors at Cost Cutters.
In late October, Leverentz calls the State Farm adjuster handling the Cost Cutters claim.
Besides objecting to the floors, the adjuster now wants to know why the bottom 4 feet of wallboard was removed in the store.
Leverentz explains that ServiceMaster, which was hired to clean the center, recommended removing that much wallboard in every space because it turned moldy over the summer.
"Mold is excluded from this policy," the adjuster says.
Roberts explodes. None of the other tenants, he says, are getting such denials, even though they all sustained the same type of damage.
"If I can't get her to reverse her decision, I won't let any of my tenants use State Farm," Roberts says.
City inspectors are flexible
From the start of construction, one of Roberts' biggest concerns has been how the city of Minneapolis would treat his project. Inspectors must sign off on the plans for every space, but the center was built more than 30 years ago and building codes have changed significantly.
As Roberts steps into Cheng's, he notes that the bathroom -- at the rear of the restaurant -- will never pass muster under the Americans With Disabilities Act. For starters, there is no public access. Moving the restroom to the front could add $50,000 in project costs, busting the owner's rebuilding budget. It would also wipe out the tiny dining room.
The situation becomes urgent at the end of November, a few days before the inspector assigned to Highland is scheduled to retire.
Roberts asks Leverentz to call him immediately. "You can argue that it makes the restaurant impossible to rebuild," Roberts says.
To everyone's surprise, the inspector agrees to waive ADA requirements for everyone at the center, allowing them to rebuild their bathrooms the way they were before.
Steve Poor, the city's director of development services, said he instructed inspectors to be flexible on riot-related rebuilding projects.
"If people are just trying to get back to what they had, we try to work with them," Poor said in a recent interview.
Nearing completion
In December, as contractors rush to finish work on the first five stores to reopen, Highland Plaza begins to look more like a shopping center than a fortress. Plywood is replaced with glass. The security fence is moved to provide the first public access in months.
The biggest news arrives Dec. 1, when Roberts tells his construction chiefs that Walgreens signed a contract to move a mobile pharmacy into the parking lot. The company also is close to leasing a big chunk of the former Office Depot. The deal was made possible when Walgreens was evicted from a nearby property destroyed in the riots.
Though Walgreens hoped to open the mobile pharmacy in December, the company didn't deliver its trailer in time to make that deadline. Originally, Dollar Tree planned to open in December, too. But Dominique said the company took more than a month to send him all the equipment he needed. He was also delayed when his assistant came down with COVID-19.
By mid-December, the virus has swept the job site. Two construction workers were hospitalized, and Roberts and several others are forced to stay away for two weeks after they get sick. Masks, barely worn before now, become standard issue at weekly project meetings.
As he tours the center this month with Leverentz, Roberts finds out that the outlook for Cheng's is once again cloudy. State Farm has changed adjusters, and the new person is restarting the process for the restaurant's claim.
Restaurant owner Chun Chen is flabbergasted. "Oh, my God," she tells Leverentz. To reopen on time, Cheng's must immediately order $30,000 in new equipment. Roberts later tells Leverentz to place the order without waiting for State Farm's decision.
"Either the insurer is going to pay for it or I am," Roberts says. "We'll get them open."
One day after the Star Tribune provided a summary of Roberts' complaints, State Farm agreed to pay for the equipment and all requested construction costs for Cheng's.
Though Roberts is "95% sure" that several stores will reopen by Feb. 1, his tenants aren't as confident. The Ahn family hoped to reopen their 7 Mile Fashion store in north Minneapolis on Dec. 1, but late-arriving merchandise, a faulty security system and other problems forced them to bump that date back four times.
The store finally opened Dec. 18. Despite a lack of advertising or even a "grand opening" banner, a steady stream of customers found their way back, generating 124 sales by day's end.
"We missed you," said Tracy Williams, who drove over from St. Paul to pick up $10 worth of hard-to-find hair products. "You have everything I need."
Staff writer Maya Rao contributed to this report. jeff.meitrodt@startribune.com 612-673-4132
CREDIT:JEFFREY MEITRODT; STAFF WRITER

Subject: Shopping centers; Site planning; Military reserves; Riots; Plywood; Tenants; Contractors

Business indexing term: Subject: Contractors

Location: Minnesota

People: Floyd, George

Title: Determined mall owner, tenants rebuild after riots:   A story of business revival on Lake Street

Publication title: Star Tribune; Minneapolis, Minn.

First page: A.1

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Dec 31, 2020

Section: NEWS

Publisher: Star Tribune Media Company LLC

Place of publication: Minneapolis, Minn.

Country of publication: United States, Minneapolis, Minn.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 08952825

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2474363145

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/determined-mall-owner-tenants-rebuild-after-riots/docview/2474363145/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright Star Tribune Media Company LLC Dec 31, 2020

Last updated: 2020-12-31

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 2 of 25

GEORGE FLOYD'S SEARCH FOR SALVATION: EVERYBODY KNEW HIM AS A POPULAR ATHLETE WITH A GENTLE SPIRIT. BUT OPPORTUNITIES FOR GEORGE FLOYD WERE FEW IN THE IMPOVERISHED THIRD WARD OF HOUSTON, AND RACISM A CONSTANT BARRIER. AFTER YEARS OF STRUGGLES, HE JOINED A PIPELINE OF MEN FROM THE NEIGHBORHOOD SEEKING REDEMPTION IN MINNEAPOLIS. FLOYD DIDN'T COME TO CHANGE THE WORLD. HE THOUGHT HE WAS SAVING HIS LIFE.

Author: Rao, Maya

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/george-floyds-search-salvation/docview/2473272011/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=08952825&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=GEORGE+FLOYD%27S+SEARCH+FOR+SALVATION&amp;aulast=Rao%2C+Maya&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Story by MAYA RAO • Photos by CARLOS GONZALEZ • Star Tribune staff • Illustration by CHARLES CHAISSON • Special to the Star Tribune
CHAPTER ONE: LOOKING FOR HOPE UP NORTH
Robert Fonteno was calling on God.
He had found his way out of the darkness into a life of Christian faith upon moving to Minneapolis from Houston. Over the years he tried to aid the passage of fellow Texans riding on the same prayers.
But he no longer paid the way of anybody who asked. After seeing some fumble the chance to better their lives here, Fonteno came to rely on divine guidance over several days when answering requests for help.
This time, the call had come at the end of a long day hauling freight, as he was retiring for the night at a truck stop. The Houston man on the line needed Fonteno to buy his bus ticket for the journey 1,200 miles north.
His name was George Floyd, and he was a legend in their old neighborhood. Fonteno once thought his friend was destined for stardom. Now, Floyd claimed to have no money.
"If I stay down here," he told Fonteno, "I'm going to die … I'm pretty much all out of options."
Both men came of age in a metropolis steeped in segregation and inequality, a city where, as Fonteno saw it, there was always a distinct sense of knowing one's place and staying there.
The hospital where Fonteno was born was named after the president of the Confederacy. That year of 1967 saw uprisings over racial injustice across America, and in Houston, police shot 3,000 rounds into a dormitory where students from the historically Black Texas Southern University had barricaded themselves.
Houston's Third Ward erupted again three years later when a Black man died in police custody after fleeing a traffic stop. The two officers were acquitted of murder charges. During protests over police brutality, a shootout between cops and a group of activists modeled after the Black Panthers led to the killing of a Black leader, and a jury declined to indict the officers.
Fonteno was too young to understand, but he grew up listening. Listening to his parents question the police side of the story in that gun battle. Listening to his elders' tales of sharecropping in Louisiana, where they talked of living in shacks with no running water and scrambling to survive when the farm's owner refused to pay them for their cotton crop one year. "Those were hard times, boy," his grandpa said.
Houston voted to desegregate schools over the protests of white parents in 1970, and Fonteno was bused for several years to a white school. He learned to temper his mannerisms as a tall Black boy, lowering his voice and not patting white acquaintances on the back when he spoke.
The racial order could be as unforgiving as the sun that blazed over the flatlands of Houston, but the football field was a place of refuge.
Fonteno started playing football when he was 7, his father pushing him to secure an athletic scholarship to college. Fonteno knew that he had to go to Jack Yates High School if he wanted to play among kings.
The Jack Yates Lions twice came close to winning a state championship during Fonteno's teen years. He made the team and by 1985, when he was a junior, the Lions were overwhelming their competition, triumphing over the lesser resources of their neighborhood with athletic force and grueling drills.
Players lifted weights in a wood shack with no air conditioning, using hand-me-down equipment donated from local gyms. Coaches made them run 2 miles after each practice, calling out from the sidelines to pick up the pace.
The Lions were 15-0 when they played for the state championship. Their opponents, the Permian Panthers from the booming oil town of Odessa, were four-time champions with much fancier facilities. Their exploits would later be chronicled in the book "Friday Night Lights," which was adapted into a movie and television series.
Rapper LL Cool J had just released "Radio," his first album, and Fonteno and his friends on the bus sang along the whole way to the Dallas suburbs, where the game would be played at Texas Stadium several days before Christmas. The lyrics of "I Can't Live Without My Radio" matched the mission of the team dressed in crimson and gold:
My story is rough, my neighborhood is tough
But I still sport gold, and I'm out to crush
Yates routed Permian 37-0, becoming the first historically Black school to triumph in the state championship's large-school division since competition was integrated in 1967. Texans raved about the game for decades, deeming the 1985 Yates Lions one of the best high school football teams in state history, and a handful of players went on to the NFL.
Fonteno never got a college scholarship. His parents split up, and he, his sisters and their mother moved back to the Third Ward. During his senior year, Fonteno got arrested for car theft, and he spiraled into disillusionment.
He still attended his alma mater's football games over the years and was impressed by a new star athlete's prowess one Friday night at Barnett Stadium in the early '90s.
A week later, Fonteno ran into him at the corner store. The player's sturdy, 6-foot-6 frame was unforgettable, and he stood a good 5 inches above Fonteno.
"You're Number 88? Big Floyd, right?"
"Yeah, that's me," Floyd said.
"You played a big game last week. All you've got to do is stay out of the streets and stay focused, and you'll make it."
Fonteno, six years older than Floyd, believed he had already missed his chance. Crack cocaine was ravaging urban neighborhoods across America and Fonteno had "jumped off the porch," as the neighborhood guys put it, hustling drugs in the streets.
He knew Floyd's athletic talent far surpassed his own, and the young man struck Fonteno as humble.
Fonteno was sure he would go far.
---
Larcenia "Cissy" Floyd grew up in North Carolina in "an old, raggedy, broke-down shack," as her younger sister Angela Harrelson described it. They were raised in a family of 14 children by parents who toiled as sharecroppers in the tobacco fields for $2.50 an hour, pausing only for a lunch of crackers and honey buns and peanuts, laboring through aches and hunger until dusk.
Their father landed a job at a barbecue restaurant that kept whites in the front and Black employees in the back, wearing the scent of smoke home from working the hog pit. The children encountered hostile white teachers and classmates in the newly desegregated schools and in establishments labeled "whites only." When they went to the grocery store for potatoes, they were given the worst ones.
Racism shadowed their lives, but their mother imparted love and hope and Christian faith, encouraging them to do their best with what they were given. Cissy carried that legacy with her when she moved the family from North Carolina to Houston in 1977 after splitting with her children's father.
George Floyd, her first son, was 4 years old.
They settled in Cuney Homes, the city's first public housing project, a plain brick complex that opened in 1938. The Third Ward was home to a rich African American cultural and musical tradition, with a bustling commercial corridor. It was also a font of civil rights activism: Texas Southern University students in the ward staged Houston's first sit-in at a lunch counter in 1960.
But when legal segregation ended and middle-class and well-to-do residents moved out, the community sank into poverty and decline. The neighborhood was so rough that Harrelson grew a little nervous when she visited her sister. She felt Cissy Floyd couldn't seem to catch a break, and she sent toys and money for the kids over the years.
Children in the Floyd home crowded into the same beds. They washed their socks and underwear in the bathroom sink and dried them on the water heater or inside the oven. Cafeteria workers gave Floyd and his friends extra plates of food. The boys on occasion would visit the hamburger stand where Cissy worked and get free meals, but they sometimes went to bed hungry. Senior classmates handed down tennis shoes and clothes. Floyd and his buddies often borrowed and lent one another a few dollars to get by.
Miss Cissy, as she was often called, was a beloved fixture of Cuney Homes. For all her struggles, she was known as lively and funny and generous, with a wide-open heart. When the mother of Floyd's friend went to prison, Cissy took him in for several years, as she did for a series of neighborhood youth. When the boy cut his foot, Cissy applied a homespun remedy of a spiderweb and sugar.
People always said George Floyd was just like Mama.
His family called him Perry, his middle name, and friends knew him as Floyd or Big Floyd. Floyd was the middle of his mother's five children -- he had two older sisters and two younger brothers -- but he was regarded in some ways as the man of the house. He looked the part early on, standing 6 feet tall by middle school.
Floyd didn't seem to walk through the world with the wariness one might expect of a boy carrying great responsibility. Those close to him recalled that his humor, kindness and magnetism won him friends and admirers everywhere he went; younger boys looked up to him, and older boys looked out for him. His brother Philonise described Floyd as a general: A line of people waited to greet him every time he went outside, and he made them feel important no matter their stature.
Floyd's tall, skinny frame favored the basketball court, and he played on the high school team. But Yates was best known for football, and friends talked him into trying out.
Yates football coach Maurice McGowan was impressed with Floyd's athleticism and moved him up to varsity his freshman year. Still, he could not figure out where to play him at first. Floyd seemed too tall to be a wide receiver, and he lacked the naturally aggressive attitude of his best defenders. The coach tried him at tight end, but found that Floyd did not like blocking people, either. Dur
ing one practice, Floyd had his teammates falling down laughing when, after catching a pass, he threw the ball at the linebacker to avoid getting tackled.
Floyd's biggest strength was his ability to catch a football and run deep; because of his height, McGowan believed, other players did not realize how fast he was.
Just before the start of their junior year, a star athlete on the team, Carl Owens, was shot to death in an apparent case of mistaken identity. He was a well-liked resident of Cuney Homes who was a grade above Floyd. His killing cast a somber mood over the team. "We're doing this for Carl," the players said before each game.
The last day of their junior year, Floyd and some friends gathered at a spot they called "the hill," sprawling on the grass near some trees to find respite on a sweltering afternoon. They talked about their dreams in life. Some planned to join the military; others talked of college. Jonathan Veal recalled Floyd vowing, "I'm going to be big -- I'm going to touch the world."
That fall of 1992, Floyd and the Lions stormed their way to the state championship game for the first time since 1985, playing the Temple Wildcats in front of 22,500 people in Austin.
"There's pressure at Yates when you line up and put on that crimson and gold," McGowan told the Houston Chronicle days before the big game. "There's pressure to win at Yates. We must win."
Floyd made three catches for 18 yards. It was his senior year, his last chance to claim the crown.
Yates lost 38-20.
"Man, it's over," Floyd and Veal said to one another again and again after the buzzer sounded.
Floyd and his teammates sobbed in the locker room. But on the bus ride back to Houston, Floyd was already cracking jokes, trying to cheer up his fellow Lions.
The Houston Chronicle still praised him for making a mark on local football that season. Floyd also remained a force on the basketball court, and South Florida Community College recruited him to play power forward. After completing the two-year program, Floyd enrolled at Texas A&M in Kingsville, but he dropped out before completing his degree and returned home.
Friends thought Floyd grew overwhelmed by the need to help out his family, all while having little guidance on how to advance beyond the world he knew. By then, Harrelson, his aunt, was living in Eagan. She would see Floyd over the years at Thanksgiving dinners in Houston, when the family would dance and reminisce over soul food.
She wondered if the pressure had begun to consume him: striving for athletic stardom while trying to climb out of poverty, having so many people looking up to him even as he felt like he was falling short. He was trying to find his way as a young Black man beset with disadvantages in a neighborhood overrun with drugs.
"Sometimes that community can swallow you that you're trying to help," Harrelson said. "It can swallow you if you're not strong enough because that's what you're surrounded by and you're looking for an easy way out, and I think he got caught up with that struggle."
---
At first the buyers would be well-groomed, sporting neat haircuts and several rings. They worked jobs and drove respectable cars. Six months later, Fonteno saw them walking the streets on the backs of their shoes, wearing wrinkled clothes, living out of old, broken-down cars, everything they had gone.
Crack cocaine had arrived in the Third Ward, and Fonteno began selling it in 1987.
He started smoking excess crumbs; soon he was smoking rocks; then he was no longer dealing for profit but to support his long, mad chase of the euphoria of that first high. The crack trade grew so violent that when he saw men gun one another down steps away from him, scarcely anybody on the street broke their stride.
Cops frequently swept through the community, hollering, "You know what time it is, up against the wall!" Fonteno and a long line of men assumed "the position" -- both hands on the wall, feet back, shoes off -- so that police could pat them down.
Fonteno served two sentences
in the early 1990s for selling crack. One judge demanded to know how a player on the 1985 championship winning team had ended up in his courtroom.
"What went wrong?" Fonteno recalled the judge asking.
He had to admit, privately, that at least part of his decline came from the regret of having blown his chance at a football scholarship, and once he was a "marked man" by the law -- that is, a felon -- his ambition fell away. Fonteno found some success as a truck driver during a long stretch of sobriety, but he fell back into addiction and pleaded guilty to evading arrest in 2007. He was sentenced to prison the following year for possession of less than a gram of cocaine.
When he got out in 2009, he called a high school friend, Reginal Smith, who had resettled in Minneapolis a year earlier to get sober. Smith had grown up down the street from Floyd and as a child helped Floyd's family move in to Cuney Homes to make a few extra dollars.
How, Fonteno asked, could he get clean in Minnesota?
The answer: Go see Pastor Riles.
John Riles moved to the Third Ward from the Houston suburbs in 1999 to minister to those with the greatest need. As a pastor, he drew inspiration from the biblical parable of the good Samaritan to start what he called a "people rescue" for the legions of addicts he saw on the streets.
His modest church occupied the same street where Fonteno got his start dealing drugs. The sign out front said, "Your changing station."
Texas offered limited addiction rehab services for patients who were poor and lacking health insurance, so Riles had established informal partnerships with facilities in other states, including Minnesota, that offered longer-term and more comprehensive treatment under publicly funded insurance. Many of these states also offered more extensive job training for ex-offenders.
Sending people away had the added benefit of keeping them far from their drug hookups and other disreputable influences back in Houston. The help-seekers were so broke that Riles was always looking for donated suitcases.
Riles knew society viewed the folks who came to see him as a waste, and that the men themselves felt like they were in a chasm so deep they could not escape. He offered them a way out but stressed that he had no interest in sponsoring failure. Riles believed in moving quickly. If people waited too long to leave, they might go back to their old ways.
Riles was on a mission to save lives.
---
"Please, help me get out of here."
Fonteno stood before Riles on his last tendril of hope, pleading for a Greyhound bus ticket to Minneapolis.
"I'm going to try," the pastor vowed.
Riles was a well-dressed gentleman in an apple cap who punctuated their conversation in his office with a loud "Hey!" whenever Fonteno nodded off. Fonteno's own jeans and shirt were rumpled from wearing them for a few days, and he needed a haircut, not to mention a good night's sleep.
Fonteno was dozing on a pew when Riles burst into the sanctuary and announced that his bus to Minneapolis was leaving in an hour. The pastor invoked Psalm 37 as he clasped Fonteno's hands and prayed, asking the Lord to order his steps and direct his path. Riles drove him to the bus station and gave him $20 to carry him through the ride.
Fonteno's heart floundered as he watched Texas fade through the window. He was speeding far into the unknown, lost in sleep, prayer and yearning as the bus carried him past the hickory and oak forests of the Ozarks and the art deco high-rises of Kansas City and the five-domed Capitol of Iowa and the prairieland all the way up I-35 through downtown Minneapolis.
Snow was on the ground. He had not brought a coat.
Minnesota was a nationally known destination for people seeking treatment for alcohol and drug addiction, but most of its recovery community was white. Turning Point, where Riles knew some of the staff, was different. The rehab center opened in north Minneapolis in 1976 to treat addiction in African Americans. While it embraced the 12-step model of recovery, the staff acknowledged and treated different factors that contributed to Black chemical dependency, especially the stresses caused by poverty, racism and the criminal justice system.
Fonteno enrolled in Turning Point's 90-day program. He appreciated that the Black men who counseled him did not see him as a statistic; many had overcome what he was trying to overcome. Under their wing, he finally emerged from the murk of addiction.
He fostered connections at a Bloomington church recommended by Riles. Smith, his old friend from high school, invited him to spend the holidays with his family. He returned to his career as a truck driver.
Fonteno assumed he would one day move back to Texas. After he finished treatment. Then after he took a few college courses. But years passed, and one day he realized he did not miss Houston.
Fonteno sent money to the pastor on occasion to support the journey for others. He also paid directly for some Texans to travel here over the years, greeting them with snacks, toiletries and pocket money. He never doubted Riles' mission, but grew more discerning about who he helped personally after seeing that a few newcomers had no intention of reformation. Others were just here to hide out from some dope-dealer looking for them down South, and would return to Houston in a month or two.
Fonteno and Floyd had run in overlapping crowds in the streets, and Fonteno encountered him on one visit to Houston years later.
"Font, you're looking good, man," Floyd said. "You've got a glow about yourself." Floyd asked if he, too, could make a turnaround up north.
"You can change if you want to," Fonteno said. "But … wherever you go, you take yourself with you."
---
Floyd did not go out seeking attention, but his physical bearing demanded it -- people looked at him wherever he went. He was easy to like and often surprised people with his gentle demeanor, but he could seem intimidating at first glance.
Friends believed that Floyd's appearance made him an easy target for the police, who could not miss the large Black man on the corner when they rolled through the Third Ward.
Texas' prison population tripled in the 1990s and the state led the nation in locking people up by the end of the decade, according to a report by the Justice Policy Institute, a nonprofit dedicated to reducing the use of incarceration. Tough enforcement of drug laws ensnared Floyd, Fonteno and other Black people -- long before the opioid crisis involving mostly white users led to a push for treatment, not imprisonment.
Travis Cains, who grew up with Floyd in Cuney Homes, recalled that police pulled them over with no explanation in 1996 after they left a gas station with snacks. Officers ordered them out of the car and onto the ground, then searched the car in a frenzy, sending their new tub of ice cream flying onto the street. Finding nothing, cops let them go. It was so typical of the neighborhood that Cains and Floyd laughed it off.
Floyd's journey through the criminal justice system began the following year, when he was sentenced to six months in prison after pleading guilty at age 24 to selling less than a gram of cocaine. Over the next few years, he pleaded guilty to theft and possession of less than a gram of cocaine.
At first, Floyd tried to make the best of it. Smith, his childhood friend, recalled that Floyd kept him laughing every day when they bunked together at Larry Gist State Jail from March to July 2003. Floyd was in on another charge of possessing less than a gram of cocaine, while Smith was doing time for the unauthorized use of a motor vehicle. The pair did 500 pushups every morning and worked in the kitchen.
Floyd served another six months in prison after pleading guilty to making a $10 crack sale in 2004. The Harris County District Attorney is now reviewing that case and others after the arresting officer was charged with murder and prosecutors accused him of lying to obtain a search warrant that led to the killing of two people in a police raid.
As Floyd went in and out of lockup, some worried that he was not careful enough about his associations.
"I would always express to [Floyd] that you have to be conscientious of the company you keep … but he would always try to help people, and that can be a blessing and a curse," said Becky Sue Johnson, a longtime friend who was dating Floyd at the time.
In 2007, two people were at home with a 1-year-old in the northern outskirts of Houston when a large man pretending to be a water department worker forced his way inside, and a group of intruders followed. The big suspect pointed a pistol at resident Aracely Henriquez's stomach and directed her into the living room. He joined the others in searching the
home as they demanded money and drugs. Henriquez said she had neither. A second man hit her with a pistol when she screamed for help. The robbers fled in a black Ford Explorer with her jewelry and phone.
Three months later, authorities came across Floyd in the same vehicle. It was not his, but the victims identified Floyd in a photo array as the large suspect. He pleaded guilty to aggravated robbery with a deadly weapon and was sentenced to five years.
Floyd had not had a reputation for violence, and several friends, including rapper Cal Wayne, said men in the neighborhood knew that Floyd was not one of the guys who participated in the crime. Floyd grew up under the "no snitching" code, according to Wayne, and took the rap because he lacked the money to fight the case and couldn't risk an even longer prison term.
A handful of Floyd's friends said it was common to take a plea deal to avoid longer sentences. They could not pay top lawyers, and did not think judges or juries would put much stock in the word of a felon. That's what Fonteno said he did in 2008, when he said that a cop planted a crack pipe on him. He pleaded guilty to possession of less than a gram of cocaine and served nearly a year in jail to avoid a harsher sentence as a repeat offender.
Facing his longest prison term by far, Floyd lost his usual cool.
Wayne, who was serving an unrelated sentence, rode with Floyd to Bartlett State Jail in 2009. The dozen or so inmates were shackled at the wrist, waist and ankles, constrained, as Wayne put it, "like a serial killer or something."
As the hours in the cramped van passed, Floyd began to panic. He became convinced that he could no longer move his head up or down.
"Calm down, man," said Wayne, whom Floyd's mother took in for a time when he was a child. "Calm down, bro. Calm down!" At Bartlett, Wayne recalled how Floyd crumbled whenever the guards kept the inmates in their cells for long periods. "How long are we going to be in lockdown?" he said to Wayne. "How long are we going to be in lockdown?"
---
Floyd turned to Jesus Christ in prison, and upon his parole in 2013 was determined to remain a man of God.
When Resurrection Houston held church services on the basketball court at Cuney Homes, Floyd rose early to lay out the chairs, carry equipment and haul out the baptism tub. He helped set up hip-hop outreach concerts and basketball games on behalf of the ministry, encouraging Third Ward youth to attend.
He accompanied church members and vouched for them to skeptical residents as they knocked on doors with offers to pray, bring groceries and give rides to doctor's appointments.
As bullets ripped through the streets, Floyd tried to broker peace, leveraging the clout he had from his days as an athlete and his legacy in the '90s rapping with a hip-hop collective led by the storied DJ Screw. Ronnie Lillard, a Christian rapper who performs under the name Reconcile, recalled Floyd's thinking as, "I'm about change at this point in my life and I'm not just going to flex it from a church pew standpoint, but I'm going to try to be as Jesus as I can from a street standpoint."
Floyd brimmed with Christian colloquialisms, often saying, "God is good, all the time" and "God bless you, brother." He joined hands with others in prayer circles on the street as gang members renounced their life of sin. Floyd impressed people with his authenticity. He spoke often of how he had grown from his past troubles and wanted the Third Ward's next generation to pursue a different way.
Floyd had worked as a security guard and at chemical plants, but steady employment was getting hard to come by. He had several children over the years and particularly worried about supporting his youngest, a little girl named Gianna, who was born after he left prison. He called her Buttercup and liked to playfully pull her around in a wagon outside.
As he contemplated his prospects in Minnesota, Floyd was anxious about leaving his mother, who was then approaching 70 and relied on a wheelchair after suffering a series of strokes. He helped her stretch so that her muscles would not atrophy, moving her legs up and down at the knee while they watched football on TV. Sometimes, he'd lean down and pick her up for a minute.
"Mama, I'm going to help you get out of this wheelchair so we can dance," Floyd would say.
Then he'd hold her up and twirl her around.
---
Fonteno still returned to the Third Ward from time to time, though he was careful not to leave the house after sundown or frequent his old haunts. One day he ran into Aubrey Rhodes, an affable man from the neighborhood who asked how he could follow Fonteno's path.
Turning Point had emphasized that by healing their own lives, participants could one day become a leader of many, reaching back to pull others out of addiction. Fonteno embraced that responsibility but did not understate the difficulties ahead.
"You have to be completely sold," he said, "on changing your life."
Rhodes had met Floyd playing basketball when they were teenagers. He was a year younger and not the athlete that Floyd and Fonteno had been. Nor was he fond of school. His father died when he was 5 and Rhodes watched his mother struggle to provide for their family while working as a housekeeper.
Rhodes started selling drugs to support himself, but was not, by his own admission, very skilled at that, either. He kept getting sent to prison -- mostly on drug possession charges -- off and on from 1995 to 2016.
By July of that year, Rhodes planned to depart for Turning Point as soon as he got paid from his scaffolding job. He gambled away his paycheck on a dice game and sheepishly called Fonteno for help. Fonteno directed him to Riles, who paid for his plane ticket to Minneapolis; Fonteno covered the luggage fees.
Rhodes found relief and recovery in his new environs. When he graduated from Turning Point, he posted a picture on Facebook of himself standing in front of a whiteboard with a list of praise: Worked his program, good person, not selfish, see changes, courageous, working man, a giver, go getter.
He found a job in a kitchen at U.S. Bank Stadium during the Vikings' first season playing there. Months later, Rhodes would look out over the empty stadium's more than 66,000 seats and say to himself, "Thank you, Jesus … Yes, Lord, thank you." The day he saw his first northern snowfall, he excitedly jumped out of the car on the way home from work to take a picture.
That Thanksgiving, Rhodes joined his brethren in sobriety for dinner in Minneapolis. As they bowed their heads, a preacher said: "We pray, God, that you will give them the strength that they will able to make a full recovery and then [reach] back and help someone along the way."
Seeing how Rhodes had changed his life in Minnesota moved Floyd deeply. He told Pastor Riles that he wanted to make the same journey.
Riles knew Floyd's mother and sisters from the neighborhood, and was impressed with Floyd's humble, God-fearing demeanor during their meeting. The pastor suggested that Floyd enroll in a longer-term rehab program at the Salvation Army in Minneapolis.
He bought Floyd a bus ticket, but Floyd never showed up at the station. Riles surmised that his charge had "chickened out." Weeks later, Floyd asked Rhodes for help. Having no money, Rhodes told him to call Fonteno.
Floyd did, and laid out the stakes: If he did not leave, he would die in the streets or go to prison, and die there. After several days of prayer, Fonteno determined that it was God's will that he help Floyd. He was, however, firm.
"If you're going to come, come," Fonteno told Floyd. "If not, you can't ask me again to do this. I've done my part."
Floyd spent his last weekend in Houston hosting a community event in the Third Ward, handing out donated produce and chicken and chatting up the children playing in a bouncy house. He cheered on a "slab parade" of souped-up, old-school cars colored as brightly as lollipops, rolling by with their "swangas," or protruding wire wheels.
The city was still dark when Floyd left everything behind one morning in February 2017.
In Minneapolis, Rhodes, Fonteno and several other H-Town transplants gathered at the bus station to greet him. Rhodes would always remember the sight of that towering figure walking through the crowd in a white pullover beneath an olive-green jacket, brimming with hope, the latest traveler to cross the plains and prairies on the mantle of redemption.
Floyd looked thinner after the hardships of recent years, and he had pulled the hood of his sweater over his head as the temperature fell below freezing.
The men crowded around with hugs and welcomes.
"I told you I was coming," Floyd said, smiling.
CHAPTER TWO: 'MINNEAPOLIS HAS BEEN GOOD TO ME'
George Floyd breathed in the frigid air as he smoked a cigarette outside the bus station.
Standing on the northwest edge of downtown, he could see the gleaming glass panels of a luxury apartment tower and the classic brick high-rises of Loring Park beyond parking ramps and slabs of asphalt to the south. Target Center sat to the east and the Basilica of St. Mary beckoned on the western horizon, its 13-foot bronze cross rising from a majestic dome.
Floyd's destiny lay north, toward the red shield over the Salvation Army's Harbor Light Center. The largest homeless shelter in Minnesota stood just around the corner from the clamor of the bus depot, but it seemed like an urban island, hidden between a wall of parking ramps and an interstate.
That block would soon become a steady backdrop of Floyd's life in Minneapolis. But first, in communion with other men, he would learn that he was greater than his mistakes.
"I am lovable!" Floyd exclaimed. "I am important! I am valuable! I am empowered!"
He and other newly sober men at Turning Point were learning that their lives held worth no matter what happened during the inevitable swings of early sobriety. At the behest of a visiting speaker, the men repeated affirmations, louder and louder, until they were bellowing like fans at a football game.
"I AM LOVABLE! I AM IMPORTANT! I AM VALUABLE! I AM EMPOWERED!"
Floyd had tried rehab at the Salvation Army but did not like the program. With the help of his Houston friend Aubrey Rhodes, he switched after a week to Turning Point in north Minneapolis.
Like Floyd, most of the men who arrived at Turning Point were Black and poor and accustomed to using chemicals as a salve for the economic hardship, violence, incarceration and racism they had encountered much of their lives.
Woodrow Jefferson, one of Turning Point's counselors, believed that people picked up a bottle or a needle or a pipe because they had lost hope. He told Floyd and the other new arrivals that he was their hope dealer.
While Blacks and whites used drugs at about the same rates, the former were more likely to be charged with drug offenses. Jefferson taught them about the systems funneling crack cocaine and other drugs into Black neighborhoods and sending Black people to prisons. But the Black community must lift itself up, he told them. No one else was coming to save them. The men needed to get off drugs, then help their brothers who were still selling understand that they were poisoning their own.
Completing the first 90 days of Turning Point's program was only a first step, Jefferson cautioned. He himself had been through rehab four times before sobriety stuck. He advised them to seek therapy to understand the emotions they had suppressed for so long, find a sponsor, serve their community, and take life slow for a while.
Floyd moved into Miss Bea's House, a nearby lodge affiliated with Turning Point that had 32 beds for sober men. He and the other guys played cards at home and basketball at North Commons Park. Floyd and fellow resident Wallace White cruised the city in a green Pontiac Bonneville, listening to old-school R&B -- Maze and Frankie Beverly, the O'Jays, the Isley Brothers -- and talking about the sober life. Sometimes they circled Bde Maka Ska and walked out to sit by the cool blue expanse.
Rhodes visited Miss Bea's House regularly from his home in Fridley, once bringing Floyd and another friend to the lake to ride a paddle boat.
"See that turn? I got a license!" Floyd cracked as he paddled slowly, wearing a life jacket that was comically small on his long torso. He held up sneakers that had gotten wet. "Brand new!" he said. Rhodes cheered them on from the dock.
"We're just doing it day by day, taking it one day at a time," Rhodes said into his phone camera.
Floyd's childhood friend Reginal Smith, who had gone to Turning Point and lived in Minneapolis between 2008 and 2016, encouraged Floyd not to focus so much on making money right away.
"Chill for a while, bro," Smith, who was back in Houston, told him. "If you chill, you'll be all right. Let yourself get a chance to heal."
"I need a job, Reg-o," Floyd insisted. "I need a job."
Rhodes had just begun working as a security guard at the Harbor Light Center and introduced Floyd to his boss when another position opened up. Smith, who had worked there years before, called to put in a good word, and Floyd was hired as a full-time security guard months after arriving in Minneapolis.
---
Early in Floyd's new job, homeless advocate Richard Bahr saw him in the lobby ordering a drunk man to leave. The man shouted and resisted, but Floyd pressed ahead, taking his belongings and pushing open the door.
Later, Bahr found Floyd sitting alone in the dark, empty dining hall. He was crying.
"Hey man, what's with the tears? What's going on?"
"I was too hard on that guy," Floyd lamented. "I've struggled with issues in my life too, and I'm not that different than that guy."
They prayed. Bahr attended to other business inside the center, and by the time he walked outside, Floyd was sitting at the curb consoling the man he had kicked out.
Four hundred and fifty people a night stayed at the Harbor Light Center in emergency and longer-term transitional housing. Many dealt with mental illness, disabilities and chemical dependency, and some arrived from other states that gave them one-way bus tickets to Minneapolis because the city offered better social services.
Once, Pastor Harding Smith (no relation to Reginal Smith) saw Floyd help a man who had just arrived at the shelter by bus from Montana. He looked to be about 19 years old and less than 100 pounds, and was giving away his hats, jerseys and other belongings to appease the bullies towering over him.
Floyd would not stand for it.
"You give him back everything," Floyd ordered the others. "You give it back now!"
Then he called over the Montana youth, who looked bewildered.
"Listen," said Floyd, speaking loudly so the others would hear. "As long as I'm here, you don't have to be afraid of anybody. You are safe in this place. Nobody is going to do anything to you, and if anybody intimidates you, we will … kick them out."
Smith believed that he and Floyd bonded because their hearts lay with those who carried a sense of loss. The pastor visited the Harbor Light Center regularly to take residents to the movies, athletic games and other events, and Floyd joined Smith's outings frequently.
When someone got unruly at a Timberwolves game, Floyd would say, "Hey, knock it off." When Smith and other volunteers arranged for homeless people to have their blood pressure checked, get haircuts or go out to eat, Floyd was usually there to help out.
He told Smith that he was looking for a better way of life.
"Well, if you're looking to make changes ... this is the best start you can have, here in Minnesota," Smith replied.
"Regardless of what I'm going through," Floyd said, "I want to make my mark."
From the entrance of the Harbor Light Center, Floyd could see glimpses of the city's prosperity soaring from beyond the long wall of a parking ramp. He could make out the tower and blue-gray glass of the IDS Center and the top of the LaSalle Plaza, crowned with icons of wheat pointed toward the heavens.
Across from the center, on Currie Avenue, stood an empty building that said "$50/month unlimited nationwide talk, text & web" on the battered door. The boarded shop next to it advertised: "Instruments Tools Gold Diamonds Guns Licensed Pawn Broker." Floyd constantly heard the roar and whistle of traffic on I-394 just to the west -- the sound of the city literally passing them by.
Working security was not easy duty at the Harbor Light Center, one of the city's most-frequented locations by police. In 2017, Minneapolis officers made 1,580 visits to deal with "unwanted and suspicious people," disturbances, assaults, fights, drunks and thefts.
On New Year's Eve, with windchills 30 to 45 below, a man went inside the shelter's chapel and shouted and shoved a homeless person. Then he threatened to kill the crowd of 30 to 40 people. Floyd stepped in to kick the intruder out for the night, having evicted him for aggressive behavior a week before. When police showed up to take the man away, Floyd said he didn't want the assailant to be charged.
Three weeks later, Floyd tried to expel a man who was waving a 6-inch knife while arguing with a shelter resident and kicking over garbage cans. He came at Floyd, swinging the blade. By the time police arrived, the attacker had escaped.
Despite the hazards, Floyd believed he was doing God's work at the shelter. He was always ready to dole out a cigarette, find a used jacket, fix people a plate of food after the kitchen closed, and let them make a call from his own phone. His generosity was so well-known that inhabitants of the center would inquire at the front desk, "Where's big boy?"
Months after buying Floyd's bus ticket to Minneapolis, Robert Fonteno was leaving an AA meeting near the center when he spotted his friend.
"Floyd!" Fonteno called out. "What's up, bro?"
He thought Floyd looked better than he ever had. He had been lifting weights again and had regained his power and assurance.
"You're looking like the old big Floyd," Fonteno said.
"Yeah, man -- I feel like the old big Floyd."
---
Not long after arriving in Minnesota, Floyd answered a Craigslist ad for a security guard at Conga Latin Bistro, a popular nightclub and restaurant in northeast Minneapolis.
Owner Jovanni Thunstrom was looking for a security guard who could make customers feel welcome
while maintaining order on weekend nights that drew several hundred people to the dance floor. He had fired some security employees for being too aggressive, for always trying to play the tough guy. Floyd seemed just the opposite, and Thunstrom hired him immediately.
Floyd soon demonstrated a gift for knowing customers' names, often remembering people whom Thunstrom did not. He walked around greeting patrons, clasping a hand with both of his own. When women complained about an aggressive man, Floyd stepped in to protect them. When dancers drank too much, Floyd said, "You've got to leave," and nobody argued. Even on subzero nights, he was known to stand outside for 5 or 10 minutes in a T-shirt, cheerfully chatting up the people he had just ejected.
Bartender Cintya Canales bonded with Floyd over their interest in the Vikings and spirituality. She saw that he tried to lift up those around him, saying, "Life is good. Trust in it. Trust in God. We got this."
One night, Canales noticed two men fighting by the bar.
"Hey, hey, let's calm down, let's just talk it out," Floyd told them. "Why don't we go outside and just talk about it?"
Soon the trio returned as if nothing happened, and the men caused no trouble for the rest of the night.
Floyd's skill at defusing tensions did not seem to come from just his imposing stature. Tim Brostrom, a Black man about the same size who also worked security at Conga, said customers sometimes dawdled at last call even after he repeatedly asked them to leave. But it took only a look or a few words from Floyd to get them moving.
Even when manning the dark, rowdy downstairs dance floor, Floyd had fewer confrontations than the other security guards upstairs.
"There was something he had -- I can't put my finger on it," said Brostrom. "It was just something he had."
Thunstrom tried to teach Floyd how to dance to bachata, a style of music that originated in the Dominican Republic, but he could not master the turns. He showed him how to dance to merengue, but Floyd could not loosen his hips enough. People thought he was a goofy dancer -- his limbs were too long, his rhythm not quite right -- but they found his willingness to try endearing.
When the staff gathered for beers after the club closed, Thunstrom noticed that Floyd didn't drink. He stayed later than everyone else, too, helping clean up and walking staff to their cars. He often waited outside with drunk bargoers to ensure they got a ride home.
Thunstrom considered Floyd the best employee he had had in his 20 years at the club. And he thought no differently after Floyd opened up about his past.
"Floyd, you're a good person," he said. "You deserve to start all over."
By the time she met Floyd, Courteney Ross had all but lost faith in God and forgotten about love entirely. She was lonely and tired, worried about her debts, stressed from her job working with special education students.
One evening in summer 2017, she hurried to the Harbor Light Center from her second job at a cafe, smelling of coffee and Lysol. Her children's father lived at the shelter. They had broken up a few years earlier, and he became homeless as his health suffered.
She asked the security desk to let him know that she needed to talk, but he didn't come down. Ross waited, distraught. Floyd walked over and put his arm around her.
"Are you OK, sis?" he asked.
No, she told him. "He's just not coming down and I don't know what to do."
Floyd offered to pray with her. Ross was not so sure about God anymore, so she let him say the words.
"Please help this young lady," Floyd said. "She's having a hard time. Please give her the strength to get through the night."
In Floyd's embrace, Ross felt protected from life's calamities for the first time since her father's death four years earlier. Her worries fell away as this funny, generous man looked into her blue-gray eyes, still red from tears, and tried to make her smile.
"Can I call you sometime?" he asked.
She believed they fell in love that very evening, in the Harbor Light Center's lobby.
Ross had grown up a churchgoing Catholic with a father who was active in Alcoholics Anonymous and spoke of a higher power. Still, as she and Floyd began dating, she was taken aback by his unyielding faith and his determination to live what he preached.
He liked the people nobody liked and saw the people nobody saw; he offered a dollar and a handshake to the guys holding cardboard signs outside; he hugged homeless derelicts and asked how they were doing.
She could never tell if he was talking on the phone to one of his big-league friends, like retired NBA star Stephen Jackson, or some guy off the street -- Floyd treated them all the same. When she saw how Floyd lived God's word, it made her want to believe.
Floyd was so sanguine that it was impossible to dwell in darkness around him. If she tried, he would say, "Don't let the devil in your head."
They explored the Twin Cities, visiting the Como Zoo, Minneapolis Sculpture Garden, Minnehaha Falls, and the since-closed hip-hop store Fifth Element. Floyd pumped gas for her, opened doors and carried her groceries -- things she had done herself for so long that it took time to accept his overtures. He would gently tease her for being too tough to accept help.
Ross' teenage biracial Black son, Gavin, took a liking to Floyd, who returned the sentiment. Floyd always told him, "I got you," and advised him not to make the mistakes he had. Floyd confided disappointment at not having gone further with sports and encouraged Gavin's interest in soccer. When Gavin visited the Harbor Light Center with his high school chess trophy, Floyd talked his success up to everybody. "That's my Gav-man," he said. "He's a smart one."
During one of Floyd's shifts, Gavin's dad had an epileptic seizure and collapsed, striking his head. Blood poured from the wound. Floyd looked after him. He picked him up when the thrashing stopped and took him outside for the ambulance.
---
Floyd could be evasive with his new girlfriend about getting home in the evenings, and finally admitted that he was staying at Miss Bea's House and had a nightly curfew. He was trying to find a place of his own, but landlords kept turning him down due to his criminal record.
One day he mentioned it to some Houston friends, saying, "It's really messed up -- nobody wants to deal with me because of that.
They commiserated. Rhodes had paid many apartment application fees only to be rejected, and finally had to put down extra money to reserve a place. Fonteno had been frustrated to find that even with his good trucking income, he was rejected by landlords who discovered his old drug charges and acted like he was going to turn the place into New Jack City, the 1991 movie about the crack trade.
Thunstrom owned a home in St. Louis Park, just west of Bde Maka Ska, and offered to rent it to Floyd after some of the bartenders at work moved out. A fellow alumnus of Turning Point, Eric "Big E" Cornley, worked security with Floyd at Conga Latin Bistro and agreed to room with him.
In September 2017, both moved in. Rather than spend their first nights alone in separate bedrooms, the men moved their mattresses into the dining room and both slept there.
Weeks later, Cornley didn't show up for his shift at the nightclub. Floyd returned home from work at 4 in the morning and found his roommate dead in the basement. Floyd covered him with a green blanket and called 911. St. Louis Park police officers found Floyd crying in the front yard. He led them downstairs.
Floyd told authorities that he had seen Cornley use crack before and complain of a racing heart. At 6:30 a.m., a transport unit from the Medical Examiner's Office arrived to take the body away.
"Floyd appeared devastated by the death of his friend … and was just trying to wrap his head around it," wrote officer Dana Hegman in the police report.
The cause of death was ruled a cocaine overdose.
Floyd struggled to accept the loss. He felt uneasy every time he came home, sensing his friend's spirit lingering.
"Why?" he kept asking Rhodes, who had roomed with Cornley at Turning Point. "Why, man? Why?"
---
Despite his roommate's passing, Floyd felt that Minnesota was becoming his home, and didn't even mind the looming winter.
He instructed Rhodes in the proper way to use the snowblower at the Harbor Light Center.
"You're doing it wrong," Floyd said, showing Rhodes that he was improperly blowing the snow toward the building instead of the street, where the plows could remove it.
They had seen snow in Houston, but it usually didn't stick, and the aura of a thick, white blanket was novel. Rhodes shot a video in front of the center to show their friends back in H-Town. He called over Floyd, who wore only sweatpants and a hoodie.
"I'm loving it though, baby, you know what I'm saying? The snow been good to me," said Floyd, laughing amid the big, woolly snowflakes.
Rhodes knew what his friend was really saying.
Minnesota been good to me.
Floyd loved his new state, even telling Rhodes, "If you can't get right in Minnesota, you can't get right anywhere." Several friends from home came up to see him show off his new life during the 2018 Super Bowl at U.S. Bank Stadium.
Back in Houston, Cissy's health worsened.
"Georgie, you need to come see about Mama," Tiffany Cofield, who was close to Floyd and his mother, said over the phone from Houston.
Floyd kept putting off his return, immersed in making it in a new city.
"I just can't come right now," he replied. "I got a lot going on."
Money was always tight, and Floyd often spoke to friends of providing for his little girl Gianna in Houston. He hoped one day to gain custody and bring her to Minnesota.
But he lost his job at the Harbor Light Center, and he took it hard. (The shelter would not release details about his employment.) He worked for a while at a metal plating facility but left because the chemicals ate away at his hands. Ross noticed Floyd constantly scratching them, and the irritation became so aggravated that he visited the doctor for treatment. He also loaded furniture, worked in packaging and distributing televisions, built houses and did carpentry jobs.
Floyd applied to the YWCA's Commercial Driver's License (CDL) program in St. Paul, hoping to become a truck driver. He passed the drug test and administrators concluded that his criminal record was not recent or severe enough to pose a problem. For students willing and able to put in the work, the payoff would be jobs that paid up to $30 an hour.
Ray Richardson, then a career pathways coordinator at the YWCA, recalled Floyd as a polite student who could have been a "really good" truck driver. But he found it hard to make the early morning classes if he had worked the previous night at Conga Latin Bistro. Richardson called a few times to check on him, but Floyd dropped out of the program. He was under pressure to earn money right away.
Rhodes, his friend from Houston, sometimes urged Floyd to slow down. Set small goals and see them through, he said. Find a balance.
"You can't do everything in one day," Rhodes would say.
By then, a co-worker named Alvin Manago had moved into the St. Louis Park duplex with Floyd, and Manago's girlfriend soon followed. Floyd had found him a dishwashing job at Conga Latin Bistro after they met while watching a softball game in North Commons Park.
Almost a decade older, Manago chuckled as he heard his new roommate singing songs by Gladys Knight and Patti LaBelle, R&B musicians that he figured Floyd would be too young
to appreciate. But Floyd struck him as an old soul.
Floyd watched a lot of sports on TV, sometimes moving the coffee table forward so he could stretch his legs to ease the pain of old athletic injuries. He lifted weights and did pushups in the basement. He told Manago how good he felt these days: healthy, alert, buffed up.
Floyd was always scribbling verses of rap on scraps of paper in his room. One undated writing showed a glimpse of his striving:
Let me share something witcha
Give u a piece of my mind
Destruction come wit a warning
With a piece a mind
Seem like I can't do enough/Still want a piece of whats mine.
In another, he celebrated his new start:
Oh my what a day to be black
Plan come together beautiful we back.
Floyd constantly read aloud from his Bible. He highlighted some verses from Proverbs:
"Death is waiting for anyone who wanders away from good sense. Be kind and honest and you will live a long life; others will respect you and treat you fairly. … Lazy people who refuse to work are only killing themselves; all they do is think about what they would like to have. The righteous, however, can give, and give generously."
Floyd had listened to a church sermon about Ephesians, Chapter 2, one morning in summer 2015 when Resurrection Houston held a service on the Cuney Homes basketball court. The beginning of that passage was one of a handful that Floyd marked in his Bible with a white Post-it:
"In the past you were spiritually dead because of your disobedience and sins. … But God's mercy is so abundant, and his love for us is so great, that while we were spiritually dead in our disobedience he brought us to life with Christ."
The message is, "You are loved through Christ and you can rest in that," said Justin Bouldin, a visiting pastor who attended the service and got to know Floyd. "You don't have to try to make up for all the bad you did, just walk in this new life I'm giving you … that's what George was trying to do."
---
Floyd's first trip back to Houston was in June 2018, for his mother's funeral.
He was so distraught he could barely bring himself to go. Floyd rebuffed an offer from his aunt Angela Harrelson in Eagan to accompany her on the trip down south, and when she greeted her nephew in Houston, she did not see the usual smile in his eyes. He would not look directly at her, and struggled to keep his composure.
"He lost what kept him centered," Cofield said.
For days after the service, she saw Floyd lying on the couch, grieving.
He had been gone only 16 months, but Floyd was spooked by the gunfire tearing apart the Third Ward. A friend's 8-year-old son had been killed and his 5-year-old daughter was wounded in a drive-by shooting. "I need to go back to Minnesota," Floyd told his friend Cal Wayne.
He spent more time alone in his room when he returned to Minneapolis, not wanting to burden others with his anguish. But death became a grim chorus in Floyd's life as news kept coming about the shootings of old neighbors and friends in Houston.
Ross had seen Floyd disappear for days when his roommate Cornley died. Now, when she saw him withdraw, she learned to ask, "Did you lose somebody? What's going on? ... You can't just shut down!"
He and Ross began relapsing in the first half of 2018 on Percocet and other opioids. They used partly to ease their physical pain -- the strain of old sports injuries and hard labor jobs for Floyd, the neck and back ailments that had long plagued Ross. But they also sought to escape the private agonies they carried. Ross was not sure, exactly, what could keep a person sober or not from one day to the next.
Floyd began revealing to her more about his time in prison. He had been free since 2013 but evoked his suffering in confinement as if it were in the near reaches of his mind. Everything felt too small for him in prison -- even his feet hung off the bed. Sometimes Floyd curled into a shell and Ross would hold him as he described how the walls seemed to close in on him in his cell. She could feel his heart racing, his body trembling, and wondered if Floyd suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder for which he never found counseling.
Ross felt, after listening to Floyd, that prison cells weren't made for someone like him. Sometimes she felt the whole world wasn't made for someone like him.
Like Floyd, Ross had also sold and used drugs over the years. Addiction ran in both their families. It bothered her that Floyd had a criminal record while she, a white woman, did not.
They would stop using for long periods. Relapse -- stop -- relapse -- stop. "We both suffered with that together and we both got sober together," Ross said. "Addiction is funny like that … it comes and goes and it can trap you."
But Floyd never fully surrendered. He never stopped trying.
He always came back to sobriety.
---
"Keep your hands where I can f -- ing see them!"
Floyd panicked. He stammered. He fumbled. A Minneapolis police officer had just approached him at the passenger side of an unlicensed Ford Explorer during a traffic stop on May 6, 2019. Now the cop was ordering him to put his hands on the dashboard.
"Open your mouth! Spit out what you got! Spit out what you got! I'm going to tase you! Spit it out!"
Two officers maneuvered Floyd out of the car and handcuffed him.
"I apologize for it, man," Floyd said. "I apologize, man. I apologize … Why y'all doing me like that? … Please, man … Please, somebody help me, man."
The cops patted Floyd down and found pain pills. Police ultimately never forwarded the case to prosecutors for possible charges, but Floyd whimpered fearfully as a third officer drove him to the police station and tried to calm him down.
"George," she said. "Will you listen to me? Will you relax, please? Just relax."
At the station, officers sat Floyd down for questioning.
"I heard you're high? ... Right?"
"Yes, sir."
Floyd told them he had taken Percocets that day, and -- without specifying the kind -- that he took eight or nine pills daily.
An officer asked if he usually sold them.
"No, I'm -- well, the reason why I don't get involved with that [is] because Minneapolis has been good to me. And regardless of my addiction, I never wanted to see the penitentiary again."
Worried about Floyd's condition, authorities called an ambulance.
"I'm getting f -- ed over, man," Floyd said. "Every time, man, every time. Oh man, every f -- ing time, man. Every f -- ing time, man."
A medical professional named Shelley took his blood pressure and voiced alarm at the reading: 216 over 160. Floyd told her that he had not been taking his medication for high blood pressure, a condition that ran in his family.
She asked if he felt sick if he didn't take pain pills.
"Yeah … People prey on the weak, man."
Shelley tried to comfort Floyd as they waited for help to arrive.
"We're not judging you, we just want to make sure you're OK, all right? Maybe … this is what it takes to get you taken care of. … Maybe this was meant to be."
CHAPTER THREE: LOSING BIG FLOYD
George Floyd looked around the Anoka duplex that his friend Aubrey Rhodes had just bought.
Like Floyd, Rhodes had left Houston's Third Ward in search of a new life in Minnesota. He had gone through treatment, found a job and saved for a down payment.
Now, in these closing weeks of 2019, Rhodes was moving into his own home, and Floyd was there to help.
"I like this," he said.
Floyd admired the friend he called "lil' bro." He wanted Rhodes to show him how to buy a house once he "got all this stuff together," hopeful that his friend's success presaged his own.
In the new year, Floyd found another way of claiming his place as a Minnesotan: He changed the area code on his replacement cellphone from 832 -- Houston -- to 612. Then he and his girlfriend, Courteney Ross, ran out of the Metro PCS store, holding hands and laughing as they jumped over snowbanks with giddy elation. They bought pizza slices across the street to celebrate.
Minnesota, with one-tenth the Black population of Texas, seemed an unlikely place for Black men from Houston to affix their hopes.
The gulf between the state's mostly white residents and its Black ones -- in education, income and homeownership -- was among the largest in the nation. Twenty-seven percent of Black Minnesotans lived in poverty, far higher than the 18% of similarly struggling Black Texans.
Law enforcement agencies across the state -- especially in Minneapolis -- had been dogged for years by accusations of biased policing. Officers rarely faced serious consequences for their actions, but the city had paid out millions of dollars in legal settlements to Black victims of police abuse.
Months after Floyd moved here in 2017, a jury acquitted police officer Jeronimo Yanez of manslaughter for fatally shooting Philando Castile, a Black man, during a traffic stop. Thousands of people marched to the State Capitol to protest the verdict.
"There has always been a systemic problem in the state of Minnesota," his mother, Valerie Castile, declared outside the Ramsey County Courthouse after the decision. " … The system continues to fail Black people and it will continue to fail you all."
The following year, Castile met Floyd at an event serving the homeless outside the Harbor Light Center.
"What happened to Philando never should have happened," Floyd told her, and Castile could feel the kindness in his embrace.
Pastor John Riles in Houston and some of the men who followed the path he laid out for them did not dwell on racism in Minnesota. They were heartened by the tranquillity of the landscape and the friendly people; how residents of different cultures seemed to get along, compared to the segregated and punishing milieu of Houston.
Rhodes brightened when describing his first visit to the Minnesota State Fair, where he saw such an impressive mingling of citizens. He felt at peace at the Salvation Army Northwoods Camp in Finlayson, where he strolled the forest at night and prayed, basking in the quiet.
Floyd's friend Reginal Smith, when he moved to the Twin Cities from Houston, had heard that the Minneapolis police were quick to shoot. Yet he never felt that he drew their scrutiny, and when he moved back to Texas with his partner in 2016, he did not pass on any warning to Floyd. He wanted him to experience Minnesota as he had: a place where a Black man would be judged for who he was, not his past.
Floyd voiced surprise to his white girlfriend about how pleasant people were here. She told him to be leery; Ross knew how they could be in private. Sometimes, when she harshly criticized the police, he would suggest they were only doing their job.
Still, they agreed that Ross should drive whenever they were together, knowing that cops were less likely to pull over a white woman than a Black man.
Once she took Floyd to an auto shop in northeast Minneapolis to repair a tire. The staff had always treated her well when she came on her own, but with a Black man at her side, she found workers dismissive and rude. Ross was furious.
Floyd told her that they would find another shop. He believed that Minnesota had a heart for him -- for everybody. He often urged her to be thankful for the state's abundance.
Ross considered herself far more pessimistic about Minnesota, about white people.
"Well, we're not equitable enough," Ross told him. "We need more."
---
Last year, Floyd tried again to become a licensed truck driver. He completed the training but told Robert Fonteno, the Houston native who paid for his bus ticket to Minnesota, that he failed the road test and needed to save some money in order to retake it.
Floyd was still working part-time at Conga Latin Bistro when he began another job as a delivery driver, traveling rural roads late into the winter nights. In January, police in western Minnesota ticketed him for speeding and driving without a valid endorsement for his noncommercial truck. He was cited again less than a week later for falling asleep and hitting a car at a red light. No one was injured, but Floyd lost his job.
He sought to discipline himself. Floyd wrote a series of affirmations on the back of a February document related to his blood pressure medicine, and taped the list to his bedroom wall:
• Let this be the day I claim victory over this dark situation through the Holy Spirit.
• Always know u are wright here with me.
• No matter the time you can always grab you some word.
• You get up & gather yaself in da morning & feed your spirit.
• Follow that with your workout.
Floyd was still looking for another job when the pandemic struck in March. Then he tested positive for COVID-19. Though hypertension put him at higher risk, Floyd appeared to recover quickly. But his finances worsened after the state ordered the shutdown of restaurants to slow the spread of the virus. He worked his last day at Conga Latin Bistro on March 15.
Floyd tried not to let his misfortunes darken his resolve at first, writing on a piece of paper:
Look into my eyes & tell me what u see
You cant miss my heart its so dam big
A man of God u cant change me
But at some point he drew a line under that verse and penned another:
Man at dat point again.
Back stuck all up in my addiction.
It get worse got corona & 300 bucks
Man life suck
But life never ever sucked/but I dam sho did.
Further down the page, Floyd wrote: Get addicted God.
He could not make rent that April, nor May. Floyd called his landlord and boss Jovanni Thunstrom with an offer to pay half and gradually catch up on the rest. When Thunstrom came to collect the $300, Floyd asked when he was reopening the club.
"I really miss working there, boss man," Floyd said.
At home, Floyd often prayed with one of his roommates, Theresa Scott. One day in May, they stood together at the top of the stairs and prayed much longer than usual. Alvin Manago, his other roommate, would hold onto the image of Floyd closing his eyes and saying, "Amen," because it was the last time he ever saw him.
And for months afterward, Manago would ask himself, what was happening that day?
The enforced isolation of the pandemic was sapping Floyd, who derived much of his light from the company of others. He spent the next two weeks crashing with friends in north Minneapolis.
Floyd's friend Tiffany Cofield spoke with him by phone from Houston in mid-May. Something seemed to be weighing on him, and he was stressed. He could not figure out why Texas had denied the renewal of his driver's license -- records show it was for an unspecified outstanding violation -- which posed another barrier to earning his truck driving credentials.
"I don't know what you got going on in Minnesota, but you need to come back home," Cofield said. "I can't help you. I'm too far away."
"I got so much going on up here," Floyd said. "I just can't move now."
---
Floyd always had a heart for people from his hometown, and in recent years he had begun spending more time with Houston transplant Maurice Hall.
Hall had moved to Minneapolis in 2011, also with the help of Pastor Riles. Smith said Hall did well at first, going to Turning Point, working at a slaughterhouse and vowing "to get my life right." He was supposed to spend the 2012 holidays with Smith's family, but borrowed his car and was arrested for burglary two days before Christmas.
"I really thought he was going to do the right thing," Smith said.
Hall served four years in prison until 2017 and was sent back the following year for not complying with the conditions of his release. He was out in months and began staying at the Harbor Light Center. The homeless shelter had remained Floyd's hangout long after he stopped working there -- he liked to visit Rhodes and others -- and Hall and Floyd became friends.
Minneapolis police kept the block in front of the shelter under surveillance because they considered it a hub of drugs, assaults and other crimes. On a sweltering afternoon in August 2019, officers watching a safe zone camera said they saw suspicious activity involving Hall's Ford Crown Victoria in the parking lot.
Ross said that she, Floyd, Hall and another woman were sitting near Hall's sedan when several squad cars came screeching up. "Get your hands against the wall, get your hands against the wall!" police yelled, according to Ross.
She watched as authorities briefly questioned Floyd in the back of a police vehicle. It had been three months since police had caught Floyd with pills but not charged him, and she feared that he would have another panic attack.
They asked his name and he said Floyd; they asked his last name and he said Floyd. He cried, barely able to speak.
Ross told the officer his first name was George and that he was nervous. Police let Floyd and the others go. A search of Hall's car yielded nothing.
Two weeks later, authorities apprehended Hall outside the Harbor Light Center and found 23 grams combined of cocaine and meth in his backpack. Officers also discovered a gun -- which Hall was barred from carrying due to his criminal convictions -- in his locker at the shelter.
By then, several men in the Houston crowd had backed away from Hall. Floyd would not. He was known to befriend those who faced struggles, and referred to Hall as "my boy."
Earlier this year, the center hired anti-violence outreach group MAD DADS to patrol the block and ward off drug dealers. One of the supervisors was Wallace White, Floyd's friend from Turning Point and Miss Bea's House.
White invited Floyd to join MAD DADS, figuring he would be an ideal outreach worker to patrol Currie Avenue, Nicollet Mall or the North Side. White saw a dapper-looking Floyd on May 24 at the Harbor Light Center and urged him to come to his office the next day to finalize his hiring.
"OK, I'm going to come up there, Wally man," Floyd replied. "I'm going to be up there tomorrow."
Floyd never showed up.
That afternoon, May 25, Floyd invited Rhodes to a Memorial Day barbecue, but Rhodes was working a double shift. As the day waned, Floyd, Hall and another friend named Shawanda Hill drove in a Mercedes-Benz to Cup Foods in south Minneapolis, where Floyd had gone to pay his phone bill over the last two years.
Hall went inside first and a clerk rejected his $20 bill as counterfeit, according to Cup Foods spokesman Jamar Nelson. A short time later, Floyd walked in and paid for cigarettes with a bill the clerk also believed was fake. Floyd returned to the car and was sitting in it with Hall and Hill when the police arrived.
Floyd looked up, startled.
Officer Thomas Lane was rapping on the window of the Mercedes with his flashlight.
He screamed and cursed at Floyd to put his hands on the steering wheel. He briefly flashed his gun.
Floyd said he was sorry, Mr. Officer. He cried.
"Please, please, please, man. Please, please, I didn't know, man."
Lane and officer J. Alexander Kueng pulled Floyd out to handcuff him. They walked Floyd across the street. They tried to maneuver him into the back of a squad car. Floyd panicked. He said he had anxiety and claustrophobia.
"Man, I'm scared as f --, man," Floyd said. He asked to be put on the ground. "I'm going down, I'm going down, I'm going down." He said over and over that he could not breathe.
Finally, Floyd tumbled onto Chicago Avenue. Lane held down his legs. Kueng applied pressure on his back.
Officer Derek Chauvin knelt on his neck.
Floyd begged for help. He called out, "Mama! Mama! Mama!"
"My stomach hurts. My neck hurts. Everything hurts. Need some water or something. Please. Please. I can't breathe, officer."
"Then stop talking, stop yelling," said Chauvin.
"They will kill me. They will kill me, man."
"It takes a heck of a lot of oxygen to talk."
"Come on, man. I cannot breathe. I cannot breathe. They'll kill me. They'll kill me. I can't breathe. I can't breathe. Please, sir. Please, please, please …"
Floyd went silent.
Chauvin did not lift his knee.
A crowd of onlookers, kept back by officer Tou Thao, shouted at the cops.
"Get the f -- off of him! … He's dying, bro!"
Fonteno was driving his truck when a friend called to tell him.
"You know they killed Big Floyd?"
Fonteno was distraught. Then he was angry. He thought of how little had changed since his parents told him a half-century earlier about the Houston police killing of a Black activist, shortly after a Black man's death in officers' custody stirred a neighborhood uproar.
How brutality against Black people even today seemed to be the accepted order of things.
How a Third Ward hero who had worked so hard to build a new life died over so little, in the city that he hoped would save him.
Fonteno kept running down the varied trails of fate in his mind, imagining: What if Floyd had stayed in Houston? Even as he believed that all the world's happenings were divinely inspired -- even as he believed that Floyd's death was a racist murder -- his conscience felt unsettled.
After some time, Fonteno called the pastor.
"You know, Pastor Riles," he said, "if I had never brought him up here, would he still be alive?"
Riles had been asking himself the same question. He had gone numb in those days after Floyd's death, sleeping fitfully as he imagined the anguish of Floyd's final moments.
But he told Fonteno that he believed God had chosen him to influence Floyd's passage in that moment. He convinced him that Floyd's death had not been fruitless, that it was already changing lives.
When Fonteno thought of Floyd's fate -- that of a Black man who had passed through so many of the same doors, overcoming the heavy hand of criminal justice in Texas only to meet a more oppressive one here -- he also realized that it just as easily could have happened to him.
Life suddenly seemed finite, and Fonteno decided to do more to help people, just as others had aided him and members of the Houston-to-Minneapolis pipeline. He returned to college to pursue degrees in psychology and addiction counseling, with plans to become a licensed master social worker and to open a center to serve addicts, ex-offenders and the mentally disabled.
During his last conversation with Floyd, they mourned a high school friend of the H-Town crowd nicknamed Big Dood, who died in Minneapolis in mid-May of meningitis. Floyd called for their Houston brethren to band together.
"We have to hold on," Floyd told Fonteno. "We need to get together more often. We need to become … more like family, because we're all we have up here."
The sentiment stayed with Fonteno. He began talking to Rhodes more often and visiting him at work.
Rhodes, privately, was grappling with his own guilt.
"I actually told him how to get here," said Rhodes. "That really messes with me. … I was trying to guide him but I didn't know that it would come down to that."
One of the biggest mysteries to Rhodes and other friends was that the clerk's 911 call began over suspicions of Floyd using a fake bill -- something they did not believe he would do knowingly. He had many friends who had helped him out with money before and would have done so again.
Ross, for her part, was surprised to hear that some friends from Houston were haunted by the question of whether Floyd would have been better off in Texas. She believed there should be no regret, because Floyd lived a series of beautiful years here.
She still feels Floyd's spirit, hears him talking to her all the time. She once asked him for a 24-hour sobriety medallion he received from Alcoholics Anonymous, because she used to love the ones her father gave her. Sometimes she still holds Floyd's in remembrance.
The medical examiner ruled Floyd's death a homicide, and the four officers were fired and charged in his killing. The autopsy showed fentanyl and meth in Floyd's system. Ross and others were distressed and angry that some blamed him for his own death.
Then maybe I should be out there too, she thought. Put me on the ground and put a knee on my neck and take my life, because I've done it.
---
For months afterward, Rhodes assumed his usual post behind the security desk of the Harbor Light Center and looked toward the door. He kept waiting for a smiling Floyd to walk in and greet him. "What's up, Deuce?" he'd say, calling Rhodes by his nickname.
Everybody was talking about Floyd when Rhodes went to work on May 26, the day his death became widely known. "We came here to better our life not to be killed by wicked cops," Rhodes posted on Facebook, still stunned. He kept reporting for duty as protesters stormed the streets. He kept reporting for duty as the city burned. "Work," he said, "helps me stay on my square."
He missed only a few days to attend Floyd's funeral in Houston. When he returned, a crowd gathered in front of the Harbor Light Center with red and white balloons. They stayed silent for the close to 9 minutes that Chauvin knelt on Floyd's neck, and a friend from Houston finally said, "That shows us our brother's suffering, but he shall suffer no more."
Everybody cheered as the balloons they released became wisps twirling toward the sky. The Harbor Light Center meant so much to Floyd that the George Floyd Memorial Foundation would later make its first donation of $5,000 there.
Rhodes started wearing Black Lives Matter bracelets. Though he'd had his share of run-ins with the police in Texas, Rhodes had not felt bound to the movement until the loss of one of his closest friends. He joined protesters at the Mall of America, where he once surprised Floyd with a birthday shopping trip, and they walked to Cup Foods to demand justice. He attended the March on Washington and stood before the Lincoln Memorial wearing a T-shirt bearing Floyd's image, raising his fist.
The cops could kill you in Houston. The cops could kill you anywhere. This, he knew. So Rhodes did not see Floyd's loss as a reason to leave Minnesota, nor would he dissuade other Third Ward residents from moving here.
He stayed.
Rhodes found tenants for the other half of his duplex and decorated his living room with mementos of the North and the South. On a shelf on one side of the fireplace, he displayed a cake tin in the shape of a 3 to represent the Third Ward; on the other, he positioned a Houston Rockets cap between two Timberwolves caps.
Rhodes bought a pickup truck to start a side business delivering equipment. He marked his fourth year of sobriety. He had charted a strange confluence of promise and loss all year, and some days, in the midst of his gratitude, Rhodes broke down and cried.
Hall, who has publicly maintained that Floyd did not resist arrest, is expected to be a witness in the trial against the four former officers. He declined to speak to the Star Tribune, but Hall's attorney said he is back in the Twin Cities after being treated for post-traumatic stress disorder at the Menninger Clinic, a leading psychiatric hospital in Houston.
Rhodes received a call from Hall in November seeking a ride, but Rhodes was in Minnetonka picking up a red kettle for the Salvation Army's fundraising drive and declined to meet him. He held nothing against Hall but had tried to help him a few years back and believed there was only so much he could do for the time being.
---
Rhodes stepped outside the Harbor Light Center one recent afternoon, the fierce chill foreshadowing his fifth northern winter. He walked east along Currie Avenue, past the bright swirls on a mural that read Come in she said I'll give ya shelter from the storm. He turned the corner and stopped at the Greyhound bus station, now quiet, and recalled the moment Floyd appeared after his long journey from Houston.
"I remember this like the back of my hand; he walked out that door," Rhodes said. "It's just shocking every time I think of it. Shocking that he's gone."
He is determined these days, as he puts it, to "live a normal Christian life." Even if it would be easy to use Floyd's death as a reason to give up.
Rhodes refuses.
He knows what Floyd would say.
Man, this just a hurdle. Just go do what you do.
He pictures Floyd smiling down, urging him onward.
Keep striving, lil' bro. Keep striving.
So he does. For himself. For Floyd. For the next weary Texan who steps off the bus praying for a whole new life.
Maya Rao • 612-673-4210 maya.rao@startribune.com
Carlos Gonzalez • 612-673-4827 carlos.gonzalez@startribune.com
ABOUT THIS STORY
This story is based on interviews with 38 people about Floyd and his world, and draws on court records, police reports, videos and photos. Courteney Ross shared some of Floyd's writings. Quotes attributed to Floyd were heard directly by people who spoke with the Star Tribune.
CREDIT:MAYA RAO; STAFF WRITER

Subject: Parents & parenting; Families & family life; Listening; Segregation; Acquittals & mistrials; Neighborhoods; High school football; Police brutality; Scholarships & fellowships; Murders & murder attempts

Location: Texas; North Carolina

People: Floyd, George

Company / organization: Name: Texas Southern University; NAICS: 611310; Name: Cup Foods; NAICS: 445110, 722513

Title: GEORGE FLOYD'S SEARCH FOR SALVATION:   Everybody knew him as a popular athlete with a gentle spirit. But opportunities for George Floyd were few in the impoverished Third Ward of Houston, and racism a constant barrier. After years of struggles, he joined a pipeline of men from the neighborhood seeking redemption in Minneapolis. Floyd didn't come to change the world. He thought he was saving his life.

Publication title: Star Tribune; Minneapolis, Minn.

First page: 01

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Dec 27, 2020

Section: SPECIAL

Publisher: Star Tribune Media Company LLC

Place of publication: Minneapolis, Minn.

Country of publication: United States, Minneapolis, Minn.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 08952825

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2473272011

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/george-floyds-search-salvation/docview/2473272011/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright Star Tribune Media Company LLC Dec 27, 2020

Last updated: 2021-04-05

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 3 of 25

GARDENS FOR GOOD: ONE IN A SERIES ; FEEDING THE NEIGHBORS ; DURING A DIFFICULT SUMMER, CITY DWELLERS TRANSFORMED URBAN BOULEVARDS INTO GARDENS TO CREATE A SOURCE OF FOOD AND CONNECTION.

Author: Palmer, Kim

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gardens-good/docview/2472934722/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=08952825&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=GARDENS+FOR+GOOD&amp;aulast=Palmer%2C+Kim&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Gardens for good One in a series
As this year's growing season began, Minnesotans were coping with challenge and uncertainty on multiple fronts.
The pandemic and spring lockdown had taken a financial and emotional toll for many. Then George Floyd's killing ignited a storm of protests and civil unrest that devastated some neighborhoods and thrust the Twin Cities into the epicenter of a national reckoning about race.
Against this backdrop, people all over the Twin Cities responded by putting in gardens -- on boulevards, in backyards and in vacant lots -- to grow food for people who needed it.
Devin Brown decided to plant the boulevard in front of the house in north Minneapolis' Folwell neighborhood that she'd bought the previous fall. The nearest grocery store had recently closed after it was damaged by looters in the wake of the George Floyd protests, and Brown had seen a "scary" statistic that one in five Americans weren't going to be able to afford food by fall, because of economic fallout from the pandemic.
"North Minneapolis is already a food desert," said Brown, a massage therapist. "I'm more than willing to offer up my boulevard to my neighbors. I saw an opportunity to bridge the affordable food [gap] and also help change perceptions about north Minneapolis -- to bring north up without gentrifying north."
In St. Paul, Harmony Neal, a writer who teaches at the Loft Literary Center, had experienced a temporary layoff from their job as a restaurant server, due to the pandemic.
Inspired by the book "Braiding Sweetgrass: Indigenous Wisdom, Scientific Knowledge and the Teachings of Plants" by Robin Wall Kimmerer, Neal decided to help neighbors by growing food on the boulevard in front of their rented triplex on a busy corner in St. Paul's Merriam Park neighborhood.
"People are going hungry during the pandemic," Neal said. "I thought, 'I have sun. I need to put in food.' "
Being temporarily out of work, Neal also had time to garden.
The boulevard gardens created and tended by Brown and Neal this growing season were selected by a panel of judges as winners in the Star Tribune's annual Beautiful Gardens contest, chosen from more than 380 nominations from readers. In this unusual year, we invited readers to nominate gardens that are beautiful in spirit and contribute to the greater good.
Reading up on plants
Both Neal and Brown had some prior garden experience, but not a lot growing food.
"I hadn't gardened much. Mostly flowers," said Neal, who undertook a crash course of self-study. "I read up on plants."
Brown was raised by a grandmother who gardened. "Vegetables were not her thing," said Brown. "But I was always getting in the dirt with her."
After getting permission from their landlord to dig up the grass and weeds on the boulevard, Neal invested about $1,000, including part of their stimulus check, to buy compost, organic fertilizer, edging and plants. Neal's partner helped with the installation, and neighbors pitched in with contributions of compost and other supplies. "People donated a lot," Neal said. "I am not a wealthy person."
Neal planted tomatoes, cucumbers, cantaloupes, beans, pumpkins, squash, dent corn for making corn meal, herbs and edible flowers.
All summer long, the produce in "Giving Gardens" was free for the taking. Neal set up a whiteboard to announce what crops were ripening next, and placed a small cabinet with a pair of scissors and plastic bags for snipping herbs. "Neighbors appreciate the herbs. They're so expensive in the store," Neal said.
The cabinet became a place where other neighbors brought food to share, from extra produce from their gardens to baked goods, including a batch of muffins that showed up one morning.
"Stuff comes and goes like crazy," Neal said.
And during the pandemic, Giving Gardens also became a social connecting spot for the neighborhood. "I've definitely met way more people," Neal said last summer. "People love it."
Mobilizing a crew
Brown planted her boulevard garden with help from Growers Unite Minneapolis, a Facebook group launched earlier this year by her friend Angelina McDowell in response to food scarcity in neighborhoods.
Growers Unite Minneapolis organized a crew to help turn Brown's boulevard into a garden.
"About 12 people showed up with plants and seeds," Brown said. "They brought so much I had to improvise" and add another small plot in back, closer to the alley, where she also keeps chickens.
The crops on Brown's boulevard -- tomatoes, cabbages, peppers, squash, broccoli and basil -- are planted in burlap bags filled with soil rather than directly in the ground. Brown was concerned about soil quality, and the potential for contamination by motor oil from passing cars. "I opted for clean soil," she said.
All the food Brown grew on the boulevard throughout the summer and into fall was free for the picking to anyone who wanted it. She posted about the garden on her neighborhood association's Facebook page and encouraged people she encountered to help themselves.
"I'd say, 'Hey, pick my garden' when people were leaving for work in the morning."
Ready for spring
With one successful season behind them, Brown and Neal said they are committed to planting their boulevard gardens for the benefit of their neighbors again next year.
Brown plans to expand. "My tomatoes were out of control!" Brown said. "People were taking things. I will do it again next year, with full-fledged raised beds and a front fence."
Neal, a self-described activist, views gardening as an extension of their activism.
"Community is important. Feeding people and providing them with basic things is the most valuable stuff we can do," Neal said. "It's important to contribute in ways you enjoy."
But Neal's Giving Gardens is likely to look different come spring.
Neal ran afoul of a city ordinance prohibiting plants taller than 18 inches within 30 feet of an intersection. After several interactions with the city, Neal got an abatement order to cut down the garden or face its removal, along with a hefty assessment.
During a hearing by phone, Neal shared letters of support for the garden and pointed out that vehicles parked at the intersection affect visibility much more than the plants on the boulevard. In the end, Neal was informed that the garden must comply with the ordinance next spring.
"The whole thing was a nightmare," Neal said. "I am committed to doing it again next year, but I'm not entirely sure what it will look like." Many food plants grow taller than 18 inches, Neal noted.
Neal's garden has "very strong support" within the neighborhood, said neighbor Rachel Richardson, who nominated the garden for the Beautiful Gardens contest.
"[Neal] took this abandoned boulevard and turned it into a garden. It's beautiful as well as really rich and full of food," said Richardson, who noted that there were at least 10 other boulevard gardens nearby, none of which were cited.
The city's ordinance is designed to protect visibility and safety, said St. Paul city spokeswoman Suzanne Donovan. Updating the ordinance to allow more flexibility in urban gardening, including those on boulevards, is a policy matter that would need to be addressed by members of the St. Paul City Council, Donovan said.
Neal and Richardson believe it's time for the city to change its ordinance to better accommodate boulevard gardens for food and pollinators.
"People have a right to grow food," Neal said. "We need more gardens like this."
Kim Palmer • 612-673-4784
Stribkimpalmer
CREDIT:KIM PALMER; STAFF WRITER

Subject: Nominations; Gardens & gardening; Food; Herbs; Neighborhoods; Pandemics

People: Floyd, George

Title: GARDENS FOR GOOD:   ONE IN A SERIES; Feeding the neighbors; During a difficult summer, city dwellers transformed urban boulevards into gardens to create a source of food and connection.

Publication title: Star Tribune; Minneapolis, Minn.

First page: H.1

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Dec 27, 2020

Section: HOMES

Publisher: Star Tribune Media Company LLC

Place of publication: Minneapolis, Minn.

Country of publication: United States, Minneapolis, Minn.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 08952825

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2472934722

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/gardens-good/docview/2472934722/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright Star Tribune Media Company LLC Dec 27, 2020

Last updated: 2020-12-27

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 4 of 25

ARTISTS OF THE YEAR: 20 WAYS MINNESOTA ARTISTS MET THE CHALLENGES OF 2020

Author: Ross, Jenna; Hertzel, Laurie; Riemenschneider, Chris; ELER, ALICIA; Neal, Justin; Bream, Jon; Preston, Rohan; Hewitt, Chris; Blain, Terry; Regan, Sheila

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/artists-year/docview/2472934721/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=08952825&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=ARTISTS+OF+THE+YEAR&amp;aulast=Ross%2C+Jenna%3BHertzel%2C+Laurie%3BRiemenschneider%2C+Chris%3BELER%2C+ALICIA%3BNeal%2C+Justin%3BBream%2C+Jon%3BPreston%2C+Rohan%3BHewitt%2C+Chris%3BBlain%2C+Terry%3BRegan%2C+Sheila&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Sh¡ Cage
When racial violence and injustice threatens to overwhelm a community, what can an artist do? What can a writer do? As actor, director and writer Sh¡ Cage demonstrated this summer, they can do enormous things.
Following the death of George Floyd, Cage launched a new website, "A Moment of Silence: 50+ Black Minnesota Voices in a Historical Moment of Transformation." The online anthology features work by poets, playwrights, songwriters, novelists, memoirists and others who, the website states, "speak truth and resilience at a time when it is needed most."
Included are Tish Jones, Mary Moore Easter, Michael Kleber-Diggs, Andrea Jenkins and Marlon James. As it states on its home page, "We Are the Ones We Have Been Waiting For."
LAURIE HERTZEL
Nur-D
No musician and maybe no artist rolled with and grew from the chaos in Minnesota this year as well as this St. Paul rapper (aka Matt Allen).
He started the year on a jubilant note with horns, dancers and props to top off First Avenue's Best New Bands showcase. After serving as a first-aid worker during the George Floyd protests-turned-riots, he ended the year with a downbeat but determined wowza of an album called "38th," all about being "Black in a white town." This, from a fun-loving rapper who had rarely gotten political.
In between, Nur-D became one of the most visible and voracious livestreaming performers in town, including an emotional Paisley Park set and a literally high-rolling Bands on Vans performance.
CHRIS RIEMENSCHNEIDER
Piotr Szyhalski
A provocative poster appeared one day -- and then every day.
For 225 days, the Minneapolis College of Art and Design professor sketched, drew and posted to his Instagram account (@laborcamp) a black-and-white work that captured the political folly and the grief of the pandemic. Some screamed, others whispered. But always, they'd stop your scrolling, for a minute or five, and help you see.
Szyhalski, who grew up in Communist Poland, played with the form of propaganda posters, using directives and symbols to skewer the federal handling of the COVID-19 crisis. But he also captured the pandemic's strangeness, its loneliness. His final report came the day before the election. A green card holder, he himself could not vote: "I cast my ballot through the work, somehow." His daily dispatches have popped up on street corners and gallery walls. Soon, they'll be collected in a book.
JENNA ROSS
Leslie Barlow
Known for paintings that probe ideas of family and re-imagine racial identities, the Twin Cities artist helped launch #creativesaftercurfew in the days following George Floyd's killing. A "decentralized collective of BIPOC/queer artists and allies," as she describes it, the crew painted murals on building walls, the windows of boarded-up businesses and other solid surfaces with messages of hope, solidarity and racial equality.
But Barlow did much more. She kept the doors open at Studio #400, her brainchild program offering affordable studio space to young artists, predominantly of color. And while the pandemic delayed a planned solo show at the Minneapolis Institute of Art -- "Within, Between, and Beyond," a suite of paintings and videos depicting 16 mixed-race or transracial adoptees, will now open in March -- Barlow's work was included in group exhibitions at Rochester Art Center, White Bear Center for the Arts and St. Catherine University.
ALICIA ELER
Lydia Liza
Last year, she put out two distinctive and uniquely moving solo albums that raised her reputation in the Twin Cities music scene. This year, she helped lead a movement that will likely change the scene forever.
A local club veteran at age 26 -- she got her start fronting Bomba de Luz in her mid-teens -- Liza (Lydia Hoglund) opened up about very personal incidents of sexual harassment and abuse on social media and used her status to support other women in the music community who did the same over the summer. This long-festering outbreak led to overdue conversations and an overwhelming compilation album, "#MeTooMpls," featuring songs by Liza and 16 other Minnesota songwriters who tackled misogyny and sexual misconduct from widely varied but consistently sharp angles.
CHRIS RIEMENSCHNEIDER
Cantus
When the pandemic struck, Cantus knew immediately what to do. The eight-man vocal group recorded a string of performances, posting the videos online as the "COVID-19 Sessions." A special intimacy impregnated the music-making, and a vocal take on Jean Sibelius' "Finlandia" went viral, racking up a million-plus views.
The group followed with "Camp Cantus," a socially isolated getaway near Decorah, Iowa, where it could rehearse new online programs, offering invaluable sustenance at a time of numbing isolation. The sheer quality of singing somehow melted the barriers of online communication. A two-part "Christmas With Cantus" provided the classical highlight of the holidays, betokening the indomitable spirit that this classy, scrappy ensemble has brought to this annus horribilis.
TERRY BLAIN
Shay Webbie
Twin Cities comedians got serious after the death of George Floyd, lifting the spirits of those struggling to make ends meet. Leading the charge was this veteran stand-up, who organized efforts that ended up feeding thousands by establishing pop-up food pantries and delivering meals to homeless encampments in St. Paul.
Webbie, who leaned heavily on comic Ali Sultan and Comedy Corner owner Bob Edwards, helped the hungry feel more comfortable by using jokes and a DJ to turn her events into street parties. "I think it's important to add laughter to the situation," she said. "We had a good time." Webbie hasn't abandoned the stage, but 2020 has her wondering if she needs to reorder her priorities: "Performing used to be my life. But maybe there's a greater need for something else."
NEAL JUSTIN
Dayna Frank
Don't just take our word for it: Rolling Stone named First Avenue's owner among its "Future 25" list of music industry leaders, and Billboard singled her out as one of its "2020 Women in Music."
She might have earned either distinction simply from her work over the past decade, fighting off corporate competitors while turning Minnesota's most renowned music club into a family of venues that includes the Turf Club, Fine Line and Palace and Fitzgerald theaters. In 2020, she also created a sort of family nationwide. Serving as president of the National Independent Venue Association, Frank led the #SaveOurStages campaign to bring federal and state relief to locally owned entertainment hubs. What a rock star.
CHRIS RIEMENSCHNEIDER
Masanari Kawahara/Barebones
His face painted white, amid the rubble of the Lake Street Arby's destroyed in rioting, Kawahara embraced the art of stillness and precise movement heavy with meaning in an 8-minute, 46-second Butoh piece that felt like a prayer, or balm for a city broken by racism and violence.
Kawahara performed the piece, set to a transfixing soundscape by Sho Nikaido, at various locations along Lake as part of a larger project, "Offerings: Artists Respond to the Mourning, Grieving and Fires on Lake Street," presented by Barebones Puppets and co-facilitated by Harry Waters Jr. and Lelis Brito. Other pieces included an altar of mirrors created by Baki Z. Porter in collaboration with Chaim Budenosky and artist Roxanne Anderson, and a meditative, healing puppet named Halima made by Ifrah Mansour -- along with more altars, puppets and creative projects, all offering hope and transformation.
SHEILA REGAN
Cory Wong
The hyper-prolific Prince might have been envious of his former protg. In 2020, the Shoreview guitarist released five albums under his own name plus one each with his bands Vulpeck and the Fearless Flyers, another with an Estonian group, and, to top it off, appeared on three live albums. Eleven albums in one year!
He earned his first Grammy nomination for "Meditations," an instrumental album with Jon Batiste of "Late Show With Stephen Colbert" fame. The funk-rock guitarist also squeezed in a recording session with smooth jazz sax hero Dave Koz in Minneapolis. All that, and he managed to help his kids with their Zoom homework, too.
JON BREAM
Mixed Blood Theatre
When protests against police brutality erupted into violence in Minneapolis and St. Paul, Mixed Blood became an impromptu food bank, welcoming folks from the Cedar-Riverside neighborhood it has called home for 45 years. Those ongoing efforts have deepened the theater's mission.
Pillsbury House Theatre, housed in a south Minneapolis neighborhood center, also ramped up its services to families and children while technicians from a variety of theater companies helped board up establishments on University Avenue that became canvases for art born in smoke and fire.
ROHAN PRESTON
Zorongo Flamenco
Zorongo captured the dark loneliness of the pandemic with an adaptation of "The Decameron," Giovanni Boccaccio's 14th-century novellas about a group of young people who tell each other stories as they hole up in a secluded villa to survive the Black Death. As re-envisioned by artistic director Susana di Palma, flamenco dancers across the world created story lines over the course of 10 days, with characters finding ways to ease the endless boredom, hash out the trials of relationships in close quarters, or move their way past mural-painted buildings decrying the injustices of the world.
Viewers could watch short daily videos, or all of them stitched together by video creator Jim Peitzman. With a compelling soundtrack by guitarist Jose Luis Rodriguez, the work became a kind of poem -- sometimes funny, other times strange -- about living through isolation.
SHEILA REGAN
Anna Barber & Connor Wright
Inspired by memes on social media, these recent University of Pennsylvania grads decided to get off their phones and into the street after the death of George Floyd. The two artists bought one-way plane tickets to the Twin Cities and built the "Say Their Names Cemetery," a collection of corrugated-plastic headstones representing Black people who have died at the hands of police, at a grassy field in south Minneapolis.
The project essentially took a meme into the real world as the cemetery became a place to mourn and to honor victims of police killings. It began with 100 headstones, but grew as community members added names of more victims. To pay for the tombstones, Barber and Wright raised $1,000, and paid additional fees out of pocket. They also shot limited-edition prints available via SayTheirNamesCemetery.com, with proceeds going to the Anti-Racism Fund.
ALICIA ELER
Signe Harriday
If quarterback-turned-activist Colin Kaepernick was a prophet of racial justice, this Twin Cities theater artist is one of the movement's angels. A lead organizer of the Million Artist Movement, a cooperative founded in 2014, Harriday has steered community-healing art projects at vigils and protests after police killings of African Americans, giving people the means to vent and cope.
The result includes numerous quilts by citizen-artists bearing witness to this historical moment, quilts that express pain, struggle and hope. "We say people power change -- art powers change," Harriday said. "We are part of an ancestral legacy to fight oppression."
ROHAN PRESTON
Sarah Bellamy
While other arts leaders pivoted, Penumbra Theatre's artistic director was already headed in the right direction.
In August, Bellamy announced that Penumbra was broadening its mission to become a center for racial healing and equity -- plans that seemed made for this moment, but were actually long in the works. A writer and scholar, she published an essay in the Paris Review examining the ways our country's racist history shows up in our bodies. Shared widely, it acted both as a powerful, poetic meditation and an urgent call to action: "White folks, you must dig into your embodied racism, even -- especially -- if you think it's not there."
It also hinted at how a theater might know best how to heal -- "to examine, excise, and suture." Her vision got a boost this year when the Ford Foundation said what Minnesotans have long known, that Penumbra is a "cultural treasure." That designation, given to just 20 organizations across the country, came with a $2.5 million grant. The Mellon Foundation, too, awarded the theater $750,000. "It allows us to dream," Bellamy said. Just imagine.
JENNA ROSS
Mary Tjosvold & Mick Sterling
He's the King of Tribute Shows. She's a den mother to Minnesota musicians. Both worked tirelessly this year to present concerts for in-person audiences.
Tjosvold and her determined staff at Crooners in Fridley initiated drive-in concerts and intimate patio shows, then put up a giant tent to accommodate a couple hundred socially distanced concertgoers for the likes of cabaret queen Marilyn Maye and guitar star Cory Wong. All told, Crooners presented 247 shows with in-person audiences starting in June. Music lovers were elated, and musicians got paid.
Meanwhile, Sterling organized a summer concert series dubbed Relief Sessions in a parking lot in Burnsville. Then, at State Fair time, he upped his game with a 12-day run of shows featuring four or five Minnesota acts per day, including the Suburbs, Sara Renner and Sherwin Linton.
JON BREAM
The steady streamers
Hats off to all the Minnesota musicians who passed the hat virtually this year and kept us entertained at home with their livestream performances.
Among the most consistent streamers were Joyann Parker, who kept up appearances twice weekly for quite a run, including Sunday gospel sets; Low conspirators Alan Sparhawk and Mimi Parker, who let us into their Duluth hillside home with their "It's Friday, I'm in Low" shows; Mark Mallman, who came up with fun themes and even cardboard backdrops; the Belfast Cowboys, who kept raising money every Tuesday for Foothold Twin Cities, and rap vet Muja Messiah, who tackled serious issues but also had serious fun freestyling through his #MessiahMonday videos.
CHRIS RIEMENSCHNEIDER
Curtis Sittenfeld
In a year when politics dominated the news, three Minnesotans published novels that gave important issues a great tale and a human spin. In April, Louise Erdrich offered "The Night Watchman," based on the life of her grandfather, who fought Congress to keep the Turtle Mountain Band of Chippewa from being destroyed. In November, Charles Baxter's "The Sun Collective" addressed both climate change and political despair.
But it was Sittenfeld's "Rodham" that gave us all a fantasy to indulge. Published in May, the book imagines a new life for Hillary Clinton and a different future for us all. Spun around the premise that Hillary and Bill never wed, "Rodham" includes cameos from Donald Trump and others but focuses unwaveringly on an unfettered Hillary, reaching for the stars -- or, at least, the White House.
LAURIE HERTZEL
Park Square Theatre
When theaters had to close in March, Park Square made a shift to the virtual realm at warp speed. Within a month, its acclaimed "The Diary of Anne Frank" was Zooming from the homes of its actors. And within four months, Jeffrey Hatcher's "Riddle Puzzle Plot," especially written for Zoom, was delighting viewers with its comic twists and turns, acted by a top-notch cast that included Sun Mee Chomet and Shanan Custer.
Several radio-style dramas and a version of "A Christmas Carol" have continued to demonstrate that the St. Paul venue's engine is not in "Park" but "Drive."
CHRIS HEWITT
Springboard for the Arts
Springboard has always been speedy. Nimble and practical, too. But never before have those traits been so valuable. While other arts organizations sputtered when the pandemic hit, the St. Paul- and Fergus Falls-based nonprofit swiftly revamped its emergency relief fund, getting $500 grants into artists' hands within days.
"It felt like the work we always do, just at a different scale, with a different level of urgency," executive director Laura Zabel said. Springboard loves a copycat, and soon it was meeting with dozens of groups across the country who started their own funds. Springboard raised $1 million for those grants and, this fall, offered another round. It put out a call for projects that combat social isolation. And it restarted its pioneering CSA -- community-supported art program -- giving makers a boost and delivering the arts to folks' mailboxes.
Springboard's leaders looked past the crisis, too, imagining a more equitable and resilient arts ecosystem here and nationally. That meant publicly pledging, in August, not to "double dip" by applying for a revamped Minnesota State Arts Board grant program, a move that inspired others.
JENNA ROSS
CREDIT:JENNA ROSS; LAURIE HERTZEL; CHRIS RIEMENSCHNEIDER; ALICIA ELER; NEAL JUSTIN; JON BREAM; ROHAN PRESTON; CHRIS HEWITT; STAFF WRITERS; TERRY BLAIN; SHEILA REGAN

Subject: Bands; Rap music; Songwriters; Pandemics; Murals; Violence; Art; Riots; Coronaviruses; Police brutality; Flamenco; Painting; COVID-19

Location: Minnesota

People: Floyd, George

Title: ARTISTS OF THE YEAR:   20 ways Minnesota artists met the challenges of 2020

Publication title: Star Tribune; Minneapolis, Minn.

First page: E.4

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Dec 27, 2020

Section: VARIETY

Publisher: Star Tribune Media Company LLC

Place of publication: Minneapolis, Minn.

Country of publication: United States, Minneapolis, Minn.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 08952825

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2472934721

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/artists-year/docview/2472934721/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright Star Tribune Media Company LLC Dec 27, 2020

Last updated: 2020-12-27

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 5 of 25

2020 IN REVIEW: MUSIC SCENE WAS PUT TO THE TEST IN 2020 ; LOOKING BACK ON THE MOST TRYING YEAR EVER IN MINNESOTA MUSIC, INCLUDING THE 10 ALBUMS THAT ROSE ABOVE.

Author: Riemenschneider, Chris

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/2020-review/docview/2472567141/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=08952825&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=2020+IN+REVIEW&amp;aulast=Riemenschneider%2C+Chris&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: One of the happiest moments I've witnessed at First Avenue occurred this past January. What a deceptive start to the year that was.
It arrived at the end of First Ave's annual Best New Bands showcase, which proved unusually solid and entertaining start to finish this time around -- from the smooth electro-emoting of FruitPunchLoverBoy to the reverberating psyche-rock of Muun Bato to the anti-hipster Southern rock of the Mae Simpson Band.
And then came Nur-D.
The comic-book-loving Black rapper from the largely white exurb of Rosemount brought along a full band, horn section, stage props, giddy dancers and an own-the-moment zeal to rule the room that night. His thrilling performance would've easily led to a breakout year in normal times.
You could trace the downward spiral of 2020 through Nur-D's trajectory the rest of the year.
In March, he became one of the first local musicians to embrace livestream gigs. In April, he earnestly cranked out one of the scene's first quarantine records, "Trapped in My Room." Then when the George Floyd tragedy happened in May, Nur-D turned into something close to the superheroes he adores: He manned first-aid stations during the citywide protests despite facing violence -- and even after getting arrested for breaking curfew.
And now, at year's end, Nur-D has put out a very different kind of album. It's titled "38th" after the street on which George Floyd was fatally pinned for nine minutes. In dark, bewildered, contemplative tones, the album summarizes how much 2020 changed this once happy-go-lucky rapper.
That's sort of what happened to the Twin Cities music scene on the whole this year. It pivoted. It grew. It helped others while navigating its own dire straits. It changed forever.
Look at First Avenue itself.
The club had to abruptly shut down just before its 50th anniversary in March and be boarded up during the summer chaos. Then it became a centerpiece for the national "Save Our Stages" effort, as club owner Dayna Frank lobbied Congress on behalf of independent music venues across the country for federal relief. The effort paid off with a $15 billion allocation in the COVID-19 federal stimulus bill that passed this week.
Look at First Ave's sister venue in St. Paul, the Turf Club, one of three music venues severely damaged by looters and arsonists after Floyd died in police custody. The Schooner Tavern was scorched and looted, but repairable. Its south Minneapolis neighbor the Hexagon Bar, however, burned to the ground.
The Turf Club's operators stressed healing the community over the need to rebuild the venue. Conversely, someone behind the Hexagon Bar's Facebook account erroneously blamed Black Lives Matter protesters for the damage, causing even further damage there. (The Hex's operators later said the account was hacked.)
Look at the Hook & Ladder Theatre, which somehow survived the chaos around Lake Street.
Within three weeks of the riots, the Hook hosted its first in a successful series of livestream concerts bringing in real money to musicians. The nonprofit concert hall also served as a hub for relief efforts and as a sounding board for young community members.
Look at one of the standouts from First Ave's Best New Bands showcase in 2018, scrappy groove-punk band the Bad Man.
With their producer David Melek, the Bad Man's members headed up the "Bands for Cans" all-star charity albums to benefit Second Harvest Heartland's quickly depleting food shelves. The second volume came out last month with participants including PaviElle, Haley, Charlie Parr, Lady Lark and Grammy nominee Cory Wong.
Look at the ingenuity of Crooners and Icehouse, two venues that were lucky enough to have the space to host live music outside. Each took sizable financial risks doing so, with only modest payoff. But what an invaluable reward to the music fans and music makers involved.
Look at the folks behind the concerts outside St. Michael Cinema, of all places.
One of the oddest live music experiences of my life came in July when the Suburbs performed in the exurban cineplex's parking lot. Attendees were handed foam swimming-pool noodles upon entry to maintain social distancing. Predictably, the noodles became dance props instead, and a symbol of 2020's twistedness.
Lastly, look at all the women and nonbinary people who opened up with stories of sexual harassment and abuse from within the supposedly progressive Twin Cities music community.
These brave changemakers forced the scene's biggest record label, Rhymesayers, to address misogyny and cut ties with two prominent rappers. They got a DJ, who had a background working with teenagers, fired from the Current. They sparked the great idea of a "safe haven" music venue for artists victimized by harassment and discrimination. (Here's hoping Auntie's becomes more than an idea next year.)
Just like the fallout from George Floyd, the full impact of this MeToo movement was a longtime in coming and probably won't be fully realized within the music community until live music can return en masse. Stages are still the crux of the local music scene.
Albums are still important, too -- especially this year.
One album in particular, the "#MeTooMpls" compilation -- with 17 different Minnesota songwriters all tackling sexism and abuse -- was among the year's most compelling releases. So was Nur-D's transformational "38th."
Here are the 10 Minnesota albums that hit me hardest in this gut punch of a year.
1. Nur-D, "38th." The Chance the Rapper-style, happy hip-hop star left nothing to chance on this outpouring of an album, which examines Minnesota Nice-brand racism and the aftermath of George Floyd with the same smart, colorful lyrical power as his much-less-dark prior releases.
2. Curtiss A, "Jerks of Fate." Roughly 33 years in the making, this soulful, tight, timeless-sounding rock 'n' roll parade proves the Twin Cities scene pioneer is much more than just a fab tribute singer/screamer.
3. Dua Saleh, "Rosetta." What a wild ride over just six songs. The subversive St. Paul rapper and singer branches out into nerve-y rock, lush electronic sounds and other sonic wizardry while weaving their opaque, reality-questioning lyrical magic.
4. Semisonic, "You're Not Alone." Just a five-song EP, the "Closing Time" hitmakers' hopeful comeback after a 19-year recording lull was enough to provide a strong respite from 2020, and a strong indicator of more good music to come.
5. Mary Bue, "The World Is Your Lover." The small-town Minnesota native became a big-time world traveler and spiritual thinker in recent years, then turned up the guitars and '90s rock influences upon returning to the studio.
6. Turn Turn Turn, "Can't Go Back." Bandmates just over a year when they made this debut record, harmonizing partners Adam Levy (Honeydogs), Savannah Smith and Barb Brynstad instantly and -- so it seems -- effortlessly found a sweet spot channeling '60s folk and California-breezy '70s rock.
7. Various, "#MeTooMpls." The all-new songs from Tina Schlieske, Chastity Brown, Lydia Liza, Annie Mack and 13 other Minnesota musicians address one theme with an impressive variety of musical and lyrical styles. That diversity is as entertaining as it is enlightening on the wide range of issues addressed.
8. Molly Maher, "Follow." Guitar ace and Americana singer-songwriter Maher turned more Mexi-Cali in this experimental but still lyrically cajoling record offering traces of Ry Cooder and "Kiko"-style Los Lobos.
9. Capricorn One, "Capricorn One." As he faced down terminal cancer last year, Polara and BNLX frontman and Flowers Studio sonic guru Ed Ackerson found a comforting zoned-out zone in this thick, vibrating space-rock soundscape.
10. Slim Dunlap Band, "Thank You, Dancers! Live at the Turf Club." What a fitting year of all years for this 2002 live recording to surface, like a time capsule reminding us of the warm spirit and rugged character of the man, the venue and live music on a cold Minnesota night.
(Most of these albums are for sale in local record shops or at Bandcamp.com.)
Chris Riemenschneider • 612-673-4658
@ChrisRstrib
CREDIT:CHRIS RIEMENSCHNEIDER; STAFF WRITER

Subject: Bands; Rap music; Community; Bars; Musicians & conductors; Singers; Musical performances; Federal legislation

Location: Minnesota

People: Floyd, George

Title: 2020 IN REVIEW:   Music scene was put to the test in 2020; Looking back on the most trying year ever in Minnesota music, including the 10 albums that rose above.

Publication title: Star Tribune; Minneapolis, Minn.

First page: E.1

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Dec 25, 2020

Section: VARIETY

Publisher: Star Tribune Media Company LLC

Place of publication: Minneapolis, Minn.

Country of publication: United States, Minneapolis, Minn.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 08952825

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2472567141

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/2020-review/docview/2472567141/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright Star Tribune Media Company LLC Dec 25, 2020

Last updated: 2020-12-25

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 6 of 25

GEORGE FLOYD: INSPIRING CHANGE ; LAST IN A SERIES ; WHEN SPORTS AND PROTEST ARE MERGED ; THE LYNX HELPED SET THE STAGE FOR ATHLETES SPEAKING OUT ABOUT SOCIAL JUSTICE.

Author: Youngblood, Kent

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/george-floyd/docview/2472361885/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=08952825&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=GEORGE+FLOYD&amp;aulast=Youngblood%2C+Kent&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: It was in July 2016. In some ways it feels like just yesterday to Rebekkah Brunson and Cheryl Reeve. Other times, it seems like a completely different age.
Philando Castile had just been shot during a traffic stop in Falcon Heights. An African American man named Alton Sterling had been shot by police outside a shop in Baton Rouge, La., not far from where Seimone Augustus grew up.
Reeve, who was then and still is the head coach of the Lynx, asked her captains at the time: What do you want to do?
Brunson, Augustus, Maya Moore and Lindsay Whalen talked, and agreed. Before their home game that July 9, in a pregame news conference, they wore T-shirts that said, "Change starts with us" and "Justice & accountability" on the front, with Castile and Sterling's names on the back along with "Black Lives Matter."
That night four off-duty police officers there to work security walked off the job.
Four years ago, this sort of display by athletes was considered by some to be controversial or inflammatory.
Move ahead four years to a difficult 2020, when the deaths of George Floyd and Breonna Taylor -- among many others -- at the hands of police has brought social justice to the forefront and made athletes more willing to speak out about them.
"There was outrage when we did it in 2016," Brunson said. "But I feel now the climate has changed."
Brunson is now a Lynx assistant coach who spent the summer with the team in the WNBA bubble in Florida, a location change necessitated by COVID-19 concerns. It was a season dedicated, by the league, to Taylor with their "Say Her Name" campaign.
Some players -- like former Lynx guard Renee Montgomery -- took the season off entirely to work for social change. When Republican Sen. Kelly Loeffler of Georgia -- a part-owner of the Atlanta Dream -- came out against Black Lives Matter, players wore the name of her opponent on their warmup shirts. When Jacob Blake was shot in Kenosha, Wis., in August, the WNBA postponed three games in protest.
"It wasn't like the reason people were protesting had changed," Brunson said. "It was that you just couldn't ignore it any longer. Being in the bubble wasn't ideal in terms of what we were going through to get a season in. But it gave us an opportunity to use our voices, as a group, collectively to create some change about issues we were very passionate about. It ended up being a beautiful thing."
This is happening across American sports.
Just a few years ago quarterback Colin Kaepernick was essentially blackballed from the NFL for kneeling during the national anthem. Before this season, in a podcast, NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell acknowledged the league's mistake. "I wish we had listened earlier, Kaep, to what you were kneeling about and what you were trying to bring attention to," Goodell said. This year, several NFL players -- including prominent members of the Vikings -- took a knee.
Bruce Maxwell, the former A's catcher who took a knee before the anthem during a game in September 2017, received a lot of pushback. Three years later, players and coaches from around MLB took a knee on opening day. The Twins played their games at Target Field with signs honoring Floyd and with Black Lives Matter displayed in the outfield.
The NBA season, also in a Florida bubble, was played out on courts painted with Black Lives Matter. Star players like Carmelo Anthony and Damian Lillard marched in George Floyd protests.
Wild defenseman Matt Dumba, who helped found the Hockey Diversity Alliance, was asked by the league to give a speech on racism before the NHL playoffs began, then he became the first NHL player to kneel during the national anthem.
Wolves players like Josh Okogie and Karl-Anthony Towns attended a downtown rally calling for justice for Floyd. The team has launched a web series called "Voices" that deals with issues of racism. D'Angelo Russell, a Louisville native, participated in rallies for justice for Taylor.
A lot has changed since 2016. Reeve remembers certain members of the Lynx and Wolves organization who were concerned about that pregame protest.
"The No. 1 thing we were trying to convey was that we couldn't sit idly by and watch murders at the hands of the police against Black and brown communities," Reeve said. "Change was the No. 1 thing we were after. So it was, 'Change starts with us.' It was also being bold saying Black Lives Matter. Fast-forward to George Floyd and how comfortable the vast majority of people are using the phrase Black Lives Matter, how fast it had become acceptable. Not everyone, of course. But it's significantly different than it was in 2016, certainly in our organization."
For Brunson, there is a little pride knowing she was a part of that protest four years ago. She still has that warmup shirt, something she'll cherish forever. Since then Brunson has retired and become a Lynx assistant. Whalen retired and is coaching the Gophers women's basketball team, with those players wearing Black Lives Matter shirts during warmups. Moore put her career on hold to fight for change.
"From a team standpoint, I do feel we set the tone for teams coming together," Brunson said.
Others are following.
"Now is the time for action," Reeve said. "What you're seeing is action, the collective will of not only the women of the WNBA, but the men of the NBA, the different sports."
Twitter: @BloodStrib
CREDIT:KENT YOUNGBLOOD; STAFF WRITER

Subject: Racism; Coaches & managers; Professional basketball; Demonstrations & protests; National anthems; Murders & murder attempts; Black Lives Matter movement

Location: Florida; United States--US

People: Floyd, George

Company / organization: Name: National Football League--NFL; NAICS: 711211, 813990

Title: GEORGE FLOYD:   INSPIRING CHANGE; LAST IN A SERIES; When sports and protest are merged; The Lynx helped set the stage for athletes speaking out about social justice.

Publication title: Star Tribune; Minneapolis, Minn.

First page: T.1

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Dec 24, 2020

Section: VARIETY

Publisher: Star Tribune Media Company LLC

Place of publication: Minneapolis, Minn.

Country of publication: United States, Minneapolis, Minn.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 08952825

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2472361885

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/george-floyd/docview/2 472361885/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright Star Tribune Media Company LLC Dec 24, 2020

Last updated: 2021-10-04

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 7 of 25

App helps keep people out of jail by sending court-date reminders: Hennepin County public defenders and clients use it to stay in touch, too.

Author: Xiong, Chao

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/app-helps-keep-people-out-jail-sending-court-date/docview/2472361831/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=08952825&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=App+helps+keep+people+out+of+jail+by+sending+court-date+reminders&amp;aulast=Xiong%2C+Chao&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: The Hennepin County Public Defender's Office recently implemented a new service aimed at getting people to court in order to avoid jail time.
The eReminder program, created and run by tech startup Uptrust, sends automatic reminders about upcoming hearings and allows clients and attorneys to talk to each other in real time in a single digital space.
The goal is to reduce the number of bench warrants judges issue for the arrest of people who miss court dates, a common practice meant to encourage defendants to appear in court.
"When people miss court it's not because they're out committing new crimes. It's because they couldn't get off work, their car broke down …," said Hennepin County Chief Public Defender Mary Moriarty. "Anytime you can avoid a bench warrant it's a good thing for the client and the system."
The public defender's office and Uptrust partnered this year in the wake of George Floyd's May 25 killing by Minneapolis police. It's the first county in Minnesota to use Uptrust, which went live in 2016 and operates in 498 counties across the country.
Uptrust donated a year's service to the county for free. The program will cost $1,500 per month afterward if the county chooses to continue.
"Like many Americans, we were shaken by the death of George Floyd this summer and confronted with the painful reality that systemic and structural racist systems still thrive in this country," said Uptrust co-founder and CEO Jacob Sills. "It's really good for society to be putting less people in jail."
Oftentimes people arrested for missing court are charged in low-level, nonviolent crimes, Moriarty said, adding that a day in jail can cost them their job or housing.
It costs the county $153.60 a day to house an inmate, according to the Hennepin County Sheriff's Office. This year, the jail averaged 535 inmates a day, which was affected by efforts to maintain a low population because of COVID-19.
Last year, the jail averaged 695 inmates a day. The numbers included people jailed for alleged crimes and for failing to appear in court. Arrest data for failure to appear were not immediately available.
Public defense clients will be automatically enrolled in the program if they provide a cellphone number, Moriarty said. The office handles about 36,000 cases a year.
Uptrust will sync automatic reminders to the client's case file. It will also allow attorneys to personalize messages and permit clients and attorneys to message each other in real time through the Uptrust app instead of personal cellphone numbers or e-mails.
If clients are running late or facing obstacles such as child care or transportation while their attorney is in court, they can alert their attorney who can better respond and seek leniency from the judge, Moriarty said.
The app shares similarities with a text and e-mail reminder program created and implemented three years ago by Hennepin County District Court officials.
Moriarty said Uptrust will be more effective because it allows two-way communication, while the court's reminders don't. The new service will also engender more trust because it's overseen by the public defender's office and not the courts, she added.
"The court reminders took us part of the way," she said, "and this is the next step."
County court officials said last year that their program cut the number of bench warrants issued in Hennepin County for failing to appear by about 500 a month, and that about 25,280 unique users had enrolled in the program. Updated numbers were not available.
The county program was adopted across the state last year.
"The Hennepin County District Court developed the eReminder program in 2017 with enthusiastic support from a variety of justice partners, including the Hennepin County Public Defender's Office," said Hennepin County Court Administrator Sarah Lindahl-Pfieffer. "We view the program as a valuable tool. … We welcome any efforts to help provide equal and equitable access to justice."
The public defender's office began using Uptrust about two weeks ago and has already seen benefits, Moriarty said, noting that one attorney connected a client with their probation officer and avoided a probation violation.
Uptrust remains in use at the first office to employ it -- the Contra Costa County (Calif.) Public Defender's Office.
"It's tremendously effective," said Blanca Hernandez, the office's deputy public defender.
Hernandez said the program syncs all exchanges between clients and attorneys with client case files and allows conversations, which are protected under attorney-client privilege, to be downloaded as a PDF file.
The app makes communicating easier than exchanging text messages and e-mails through personal phone numbers and e-mail addresses, she said.
"You can e-mail and you can text individually, but if you're balancing hundreds of clients the automatization is great," Hernandez said. "I like having all of my communication in one place."
Chao Xiong • 612-270-4708
Twitter: @ChaoStrib
CREDIT:CHAO XIONG; STAFF WRITER

Subject: Electronic mail systems; Prisons; Public defenders; Attorneys; State court decisions

People: Floyd, George

Title: App helps keep people out of jail by sending court-date reminders:   Hennepin County public defenders and clients use it to stay in touch, too.

Publication title: Star Tribune; Minneapolis, Minn.

First page: B.1

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Dec 24, 2020

Section: NEWS

Publisher: Star Tribune Media Company LLC

Place of publication: Minneapolis, Minn.

Country of publication: United States, Minneapolis, Minn.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 08952825

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2472361831

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/app-helps-keep-people-out-jail-sending-court-date/docview/2472361831/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright Star Tribune Media Company LLC Dec 24, 2020

Last updated: 2020-12-24

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 8 of 25

GEORGE FLOYD: INSPIRING CHANGE ; FOURTH IN A SERIES ; THE GREAT OUTDOORS AS A HEALER

Author: Jackson, Zoe

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/george-floyd/docview/2472200810/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=08952825&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=GEORGE+FLOYD&amp;aulast=Jackson%2C+Zoe&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Outdoor activity is crucial to physical, mental and even spiritual health. For Twin Cities outdoors advocate Anthony Taylor, it is also a tool for healing from racial trauma.
From biking to cross-country skiing, Taylor has devoted years to getting Black people and women onto trails and into the great outdoors in the Twin Cities area.
He has served as a Met Council Metropolitan Parks and Open Space Commissioner for six years, which allows him to connect with those who run and operate the parks and continue to introduce ideas surrounding equity in outdoor spaces.
Much of his work began with a sport club that aimed to introduce Black people and women to the bike community. But eventually Taylor, 61, realized that the people who were sticking around already had an inclination to the outdoors.
"That's when I started doing other things that were introducing people to biking who didn't have a bike," Taylor said.
Earlier this year, Taylor -- along with Slow Roll Twin Cities, Free Bikes 4 Kids and QBP bikes -- gave hundreds of bikes to essential workers who hoped to avoid public transportation during the COVID-19 pandemic. During the summer's protests following the police killing of George Floyd, he passed out bikes to protesters as Minnesota and the country faced a reckoning
with racism and a shortage of affordable bikes.
Since the summer's protests, Taylor has seen a dramatic increase in people acting on their interest in outdoor activities. A curiosity that was dormant has begun to express itself in packed parks all summer, and as temperatures drop, on bustling ski trails.
Communities of color in the Twin Cities found themselves fatigued after the events of the summer, said Taylor, who lives in St. Paul.
"Not only is there the historical trauma -- this summer percolated up real-time trauma for people," Taylor said. "And as people were looking for ways to ease anxiety, they started looking around for things to do and nature wound up being one of those things."
Minneapolis Park Board Recreation Assistant Superintendent Tyrize Cox said that due to the pandemic, the organization focused on youth programs to keep kids busy across the city. But people of all ages yearn for time outside, said Cox.
"Given all the things that we were experiencing, both with the pandemic, the unrest in the city, people were looking desperately for ways to move their bodies, and to engage with other humans; they wanted to be with people," Cox said.
Since May, Taylor said, he has begun to see people accepting that disparities in communities -- in health care, education or the economy -- come from historical, institutional racism.
"We see that shift showing up in different kinds of solutions making, and people making different solutions for themselves," Taylor said.
Lower participation in outdoor activities by communities of color is a result of institutional racism, said Taylor.
"One of the conclusions that people often make about Black people, women, people who aren't outdoors, is that they're not interested," he said. "And that's totally the wrong assumption. People may be interested and still not act."
How to combat this? Taylor said a mix of investment from municipalities and the creation of positive emotional experiences for people outdoors are needed.
"I believe that a city like Minneapolis that makes significant municipal investments in outdoors, that builds their brand and identity on outdoors and connection to natural space therefore has an obligation to make it accessible to all its community members," he said.
Though the majority of recreation facilities across the city were closed due to the pandemic, the Park Board kept open rec centers in north Minneapolis, as a way of ensuring equity in their programs, Cox said.
"We recognize that north Minneapolis particularly over the summer, needed more places for kids to hang out and be safe," Cox said.
Seeing oneself is also key to building community outdoors, said Taylor. He's hiring young Black, Indigenous and people of color ski instructors for the winter season, a move that aims to not only get people of color to attend lessons, but to keep coming.
Ultimately, Taylor believes that the outdoors is a needed form of self-care, especially in the wake of racial trauma and during a global pandemic.
"Black bodies in motion are the ultimate expression of freedom. Because all of white supremacy in the history of Black people in this country has been to control their body and control their mobility," Taylor said, a practice that applies to the oppression of women and immigrants as well.
"That's why for me, it's an absolute symbol, the most revolutionary act you can do is to care for yourself, to be mobile, to move your body," Taylor said. "It literally is a revolutionary act."
Zo« Jackson covers young and new voters at the Star Tribune through the Report for America program, supported by the Minneapolis Foundation. 612-673-7112 • @zoemjack
CREDIT:ZOE JACKSON; STAFF WRITER

Subject: Outdoors; Community; Parks & recreation areas; Bicycles; Racism; Skiing; Minority & ethnic groups; Outdoor activities; Summer; Pandemics; Cities; COVID-19

People: Floyd, George

Title: GEORGE FLOYD:   INSPIRING CHANGE; FOURTH IN A SERIES; The great outdoors as a healer

Publication title: Star Tribune; Minneapolis, Minn.

First page: E.1

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Dec 23, 2020

Section: VARIETY

Publisher: Star Tribune Media Company LLC

Place of publication: Minneapolis, Minn.

Country of publication: United States, Minneapolis, Minn.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 08952825

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2472200810

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/george-floyd/docview/2472200810/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright Star Tribune Media Company LLC Dec 23, 2020

Last updated: 2021-03-18

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 9 of 25

TALK VS. ACTION ON CAMPUS EQUITY: PACE OF CHANGE AT MINNESOTA'S COLLEGES ISN'T QUICK ENOUGH FOR SOME.

Author: Faircloth, Ryan; R

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/talk-vs-action-on-campus-equity/docview/2471921936/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=08952825&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=TALK+VS.+ACTION+ON+CAMPUS+EQUITY&amp;aulast=Faircloth%2C+Ryan%3BR&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Minnesota colleges promised to help fight systemic racism and do more to support Black students after George Floyd died under the knee of a Minneapolis police officer in May.
The University of Minnesota severed some ties with the Minneapolis Police Department and announced an external review of its campus police force. The Minnesota State college system launched a sweeping review of its law enforcement training programs. Private colleges created scholarship funds for students of color and vowed to diversify their teaching ranks.
Seven months later, the work to advance racial equity and social justice on Minnesota campuses is still underway. Some schools have acted swiftly, hiring diverse faculty and counselors and constructing new campus spaces. Other institutions are in the midst of systemic reviews that could extend into next year, frustrating students
and activists who had hoped for more immediate change.
"Colleges and universities are the places that espouse to do this better than anyone else. … That's why it's so much of an insult to injury when [they] don't deliver," said Charles H.F. Davis III, an assistant professor at the University of Michigan's Center for the Study of Higher and Postsecondary Education.
In the southern Minnesota city of St. Peter, Gustavus Adolphus College is quickly making progress on some of its racial justice priorities. The private liberal arts college recently broke ground on a $350,000 expansion of its Center for Inclusive Excellence, the home of the school's diversity and inclusion work and a popular gathering space for students of color. The center will more than quadruple in size to support student programs, services and gatherings, said Tom Flunker, the center's director.
Gustavus has also hired two new mental health counselors to support students of color, tapped an external firm to review its hiring practices and is developing anti-racism training for all students and faculty.
The review of the college's hiring practices has yielded some findings: Preferring that staff and administrative job candidates have a master's degree, for example, often results in a mostly white applicant pool. Administrators said they may ditch such requirements in favor of more specifically describing desired skills and abilities in job postings.
Macalester College in St. Paul is prioritizing equity in its admissions and spending. The private college recently established a scholarship fund to better recruit and support minority students, and it permanently axed SAT and ACT testing requirements to become more accessible.
The school is encouraging employees to seek out female-owned and minority-owned businesses when they need to buy supplies. Macalester also has offered to reimburse students if they are fined for participating in civil disobedience, a move that was met with "angry calls, e-mails and even a threat of violence," President Suzanne Rivera said.
"We can continue to improve and we will continue to work on these social justice initiatives," Rivera said. "This is a marathon and not a sprint."
The University of Minnesota and Minnesota State won't be able to point to the results of their law enforcement reviews until next year.
An external report on the U Police Department may be finished by the end of this year, but administrators will be consulting with faculty and students about potential actions into next semester, U President Joan Gabel said. Gabel is also working on a new building-renaming policy and is in talks with faculty about potentially requiring undergraduate students to take a course on racial justice.
"I think that getting it right is more important than going fast," Gabel said of the campus police review.
Amy Ma, the U's undergraduate student body president, is skeptical of both the review and the pledge to sever some ties with Minneapolis police, which limited collaboration to joint patrols and investigations. Students are growing frustrated with how long the review is taking, she said.
Ma pointed to protests on Interstate 94 last month when hundreds of people -- including some students -- were arrested. University police were called to assist, though a U spokeswoman said they did not make any arrests.
"Students are frustrated with some of the initiatives we've seen so far. … They do feel symbolic but not something that maybe changes the culture of policing on our campus," Ma said.
A Minnesota State task force has been meeting through the fall to review the 22 professional peace officer education programs offered across the system; Minnesota State colleges educate approximately 80% of state police officers. The group will provide recommendations to the board of trustees this spring on how to better educate aspiring officers on cultural competence, systemic racism and social justice issues.
Minnesota State University, Mankato recently finished a review of its own law enforcement programs and sent recommendations to the president, all of which have been accepted. Most of the proposed curriculum changes, from public service requirements to courses on identifying personal bias and understanding the lived experiences of diverse groups, will take effect next fall, said Henry Morris, the university's vice president of diversity and inclusion.
"We're not changing the world," Morris said. "But you've got to take the first step somewhere. We felt that this curriculum change … was our way of being part of the solution."
Priscilla Mayowa, president of the statewide community college student association LeadMN, said the system task force is "doing more talking than action." She would like to see it move more urgently to finish its review. Leaders of Students United, which represents students at Minnesota State's seven universities, have expressed similar feelings.
"Six months after the murder of George Floyd, students find themselves disheartened more often than we want," Students United state chairman Jonathan McNicholes said in a statement. "We have offered many recommendations and initiatives, some quite baseline, that would more strongly embody our values of inclusion, equity and diversity."
Davis, the University of Michigan professor, said it remains unclear if colleges' "bureaucratic," long-term reviews will produce any major change.
"When they want to change, we see things happen fairly quickly," he said.
Ryan Faircloth • 612-673-4234
CREDIT:RYAN FAIRCLOTH; STAFF WRITERR

ERIC Subject: Private Colleges; Undergraduate Students; African American Students

Subject: Civil disobedience; Social justice; Students; Task forces; Racism; Law enforcement; Curricula; College campuses; Community colleges; Presidents; Multiculturalism & pluralism; Criminal investigations; Education

Location: Minnesota; United States--US

People: Floyd, George

Company / organization: Name: University of Minnesota; NAICS: 611310; Name: University of Michigan; NAICS: 611310

Title: TALK VS. ACTION ON CAMPUS EQUITY:   Pace of change at Minnesota's colleges isn't quick enough for some.

Publication title: Star Tribune; Minneapolis, Minn.

First page: A.1

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Dec 22, 2020

Section: NEWS

Publisher: Star Tribune Media Company LLC

Place of publication: Minneapolis, Minn.

Country of publication: United States, Minneapolis, Minn.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 08952825

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2471921936

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/talk-vs-action-on-campus-equity/docview/2471921936/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright Star Tribune Media Company LLC Dec 22, 2020

Last updated: 2024-03-15

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 10 of 25

GEORGE FLOYD: INSPIRING CHANGE ; THIRD IN A SERIES ; MORE PARENTS SEEKING BOOKS TO TALK ABOUT RACE ; LIBRARIAN IS SEEING A HEIGHTENED DEMAND FOR CHILDREN'S BOOKS THAT WILL HELP START CONVERSATIONS.

Author: Evans, Marissa

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/george-floyd/docview/2471921779/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=08952825&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=GEORGE+FLOYD&amp;aulast=Evans%2C+Marissa&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: If you want to learn how to talk about race, check out a children's book.
That's the sentiment that Tasha Nins, a children's librarian for the Ramsey County Library, has offered to adult patrons seeking help on how to talk to children about race and social justice in the months since the nationwide unrest after George Floyd's death in Minneapolis in May.
The uptick in requests for such books hasn't surprised her and when the library was open pre-pandemic, she loved overhearing adult patrons recommending children's books to other adults for them to read or for their children to read.
Before Floyd's death there was a slow shift happening "with families coming in and saying, 'I would like something other than Winnie-the-Pooh' " to broaden their children's experiences. Nins said all she can do is hope people are checking out these books for learning and not just posting on Instagram.
"We do hope that there are parents reading these books with their children, because I think a lot of times parents and caregivers don't have the answers and they're scared to broach the subject," Nins said. "Even if they don't have the answers, children's books can start those conversations and can lead to more learning for the adults and the children."
Nins pointed out that librarians are navigating this moment as their employers, often deemed an ultimate community haven, are trying to do anti-racism work to address the lack of diversity in the field. They also are doing work on which books librarians are recommending, what kind of books are they buying, being more cautious about how they're treating
their patrons and researching what policies have different effects on people of different ages and races.
Nins said she and other Black librarians have not pivoted from the books they were typically recommending before Floyd's death.
In her own household, with her husband and three children, reading has continued to be important.
Her oldest son just finished "Stamped" by Jason Reynolds, and her daughter is reading "The Bridge Home" by Padma Venkatraman. Her youngest son is learning to read, and Nins said as she's gone out to buy books to help him with reading, she has made a point to find ones with Black children in them. Most children's bookshelves feature animals or white children.
She said that as the pandemic has continued, parents have filled out a special form on what books they are looking for and the requests have included books on race but also on dealing with emotions.
Part of the job for Nins and other librarians in recent months has included doing the important but delicate dance with parents and caregivers about children's books to potentially recommend. She pointed out that sometimes they gently but pointedly ask parents: "Is your kid not reading, or are they not reading things you want them to read?"
The requests for books on race and social justice for children have slowed since the summer -- something Nins was not surprised by. She said she'll be more surprised if people maintain their commitment to seeking and reading these books.
"Checking out a book doesn't mean you're going to solve racism," Nins said. "What I am hoping is that more people hold each other accountable for this further learning. I'm hoping more and more people do the reading and more and more people have this conversation with their children about race so there aren't such big gaps as a society."
Marissa Evans • 612-673-4280
CREDIT:MARISSA EVANS; STAFF WRITER

Subject: Childrens literature; Librarians; Social justice; Children & youth; Racism; Race; Caregivers; Books; Reading; Pandemics; Adults

Title: GEORGE FLOYD:   INSPIRING CHANGE; THIRD IN A SERIES; More parents seeking books to talk about race; Librarian is seeing a heightened demand for children's books that will help start conversations.

Publication title: Star Tribune; Minneapolis, Minn.

First page: E.1

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Dec 22, 2020

Section: VARIETY

Publisher: Star Tribune Media Company LLC

Place of publication: Minneapolis, Minn.

Country of publication: United States, Minneapolis, Minn.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 08952825

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2471921779

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/george-floyd/docview/2471921779/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright Star Tribune Media Company LLC Dec 22, 2020

Last updated: 2020-12-22

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 11 of 25

GEORGE FLOYD: INSPIRING CHANGE ; SECOND IN A SERIES ; A PLATFORM FOR BLACK-OWNED PRODUCTS ; AFTER FOUNDING SUPPORT NETWORKS, JESSICA WINNIE NOW IS SHOWCASING GOODS IN MN BLACK BOX.

Author: Norfleet, Nicole

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/george-floyd/docview/2471557814/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=08952825&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=GEORGE+FLOYD&amp;aulast=Norfleet%2C+Nicole&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Jessica Winnie, who has been finding ways to help Black businesses for several years, had a new idea in the spring to increase the visibility of Twin Cities small businesses led by people of color.
In time for Mother's Day, she launched MN Black Box, a collection of products made by Black-owned businesses.
After the killing of George Floyd, her work became even more amplified. His death at the hands of police ignited a racial reckoning that renewed discussions on the economic power of the Black community as well as increased consumer interest in "buying Black."
As leaders and activists continue to grapple with a plethora of wide-reaching conversations on race and society in the wake of Floyd's death, Winnie says her business and those she supports also are crucial parts of the movement to better Black lives.
"I think that communities are making choices to say that we want to support Black businesses as part of dismantling systems," said Winnie, also a sixth-grade teacher in the Hopkins area.
MN Black Box offers a diversity of products each month from coffee body scrubs and compression socks to vegan cake pops and books of poetry.
Some of the boxes are themed -- one featured local candle makers. The boxes are made in limited numbers and tend to sell out quickly.
Winnie, who is 44 and a mother of six, assembles and delivers the boxes from her Minnetonka home with the help of her children and other family. Sometimes, she includes her own baked goods from her Wonderland Treats business or her poetry in the boxes, as well.
Winnie's lists of Black businesses came from her time spent building networks on social media. A couple
of years ago, Winnie, who is a Minnesota native, started a Facebook page called Twin Cities Events dedicated to promoting events and activities. Last year, Winnie went a step further when she began a Facebook group called "MN Women BlackOwnedBusiness Network" to help Black women who are entrepreneurs connect with each other.
She also met potential vendors at open mic poetry events. Winnie saw that Black business owners could help each other and their own businesses by acting collectively, which is how the idea of MN Black Box was born. Winnie has featured more than 60 local businesses so far.
"The box definitely has given them a platform," she said.
Floyd's death gave Winnie an added push to continue to drive forward with her business.
"I just think that so much work has come out of that atrocity," Winnie said. "There is this call for action now about how we are intentional about how we spend our money."
Following Floyd's death there has been an uptick in interest with consumers wanting to buy items produced by Black makers. Local Black small-business owners and others across the country have reported a noticeable rise in sales in the past few months.
Winnie, a former Avon and Tupperware representative, was familiar with selling products in assortments. She is also no stranger to running a business, having taken inspiration from her grandparents who co-founded the Steeple People Thrift Store in Minneapolis.
In the future, Winnie hopes to offer subscriptions for her boxes. She also would like to someday have a brick-and-mortar boutique for her businesses that can also serve as a collective space for those interested in the arts.
Her health has provided her with some setbacks this year. Winnie has been on leave from teaching since she was diagnosed with COVID-19 in July and has experienced lingering aftereffects from the illness. But she remains encouraged about the future of MN Black Box.
"It has been exciting to see the growth and be able to help other businesses," she said.
Nicole Norfleet • 612-673-4495
Twitter: @nicolenorfleet•
CREDIT:NICOLE NORFLEET; STAFF WRITER

Subject: Boxes; Social networks

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

People: Floyd, George

Title: GEORGE FLOYD:   INSPIRING CHANGE; SECOND IN A SERIES; A platform for Black-owned products; After founding support networks, Jessica Winnie now is showcasing goods in MN Black Box.

Publication title: Star Tribune; Minneapolis, Minn.

First page: E.1

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Dec 21, 2020

Section: VARIETY

Publisher: Star Tribune Media Company LLC

Place of publication: Minneapolis, Minn.

Country of publication: United States, Minneapolis, Minn.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 08952825

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2471557814

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/george-floyd/docview/2471557814/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright Star Tribune Media Company LLC Dec 21, 2020

Last updated: 2020-12-22

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 12 of 25

AG office defends handling of Floyd evidence: Prosecutors say motion to delay trial is an attempt by defense attorneys to buy more time.

Author: Simons, Abby

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ag-office-defends-handling-floyd-evidence/docview/2472362116/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=08952825&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=AG+office+defends+handling+of+Floyd+evidence&amp;aulast=Simons%2C+Abby&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Prosecutors in the George Floyd case shot back Friday at claims that they delayed sharing important evidence with defense attorneys for months, saying they turned over the documents in question within days of receiving them while calling the accusation a ploy from the defense to buy more time.
Robert and Natalie Paule, who represent former Minneapolis police officer Tou Thao, filed the motion last week asking Hennepin County District Judge Peter Cahill to move the trial ahead four months, from March 8 to July 5, because of the delays.
In a response filed Friday, Assistant Attorney General Matthew Frank countered that the evidence in question was not initially in the state's possession, and once it was, prosecutors turned it over to the defense within days, not months. He noted that the motion by Thao's attorneys was filed four days before a deadline to disclose expert witnesses to the prosecution.
"His unfounded allegation of a discovery violation appears to be nothing more than cover for a request for more time to meet his disclosure obligation," Frank wrote.
According to Thao's motion, Cahill issued an order on June 30 ordering prosecutors to share all evidence by Aug. 14, but prosecutors delayed sharing more than 15,000 pages of evidence over eight different incidents. The defense attorney for ex-officer Derek Chauvin, who is charged with murder after planting his knee into Floyd's neck for about nine minutes, filed a similar motion last week.
Chauvin, Thao and their former Minneapolis police colleagues, J. Alexander Kueng and Thomas Lane, are scheduled to be tried together. Chauvin is charged with second-degree murder and manslaughter and the other three are charged with aiding and abetting murder and manslaughter.
Thao's attorneys took particular issue with a delay in sharing an interview that Hennepin County Chief Medical Examiner Andrew Baker gave to investigators on July 8.
Baker told investigators that Floyd's death was caused by his health issues combined with his exertion and restraint by police before he was eventually pinned on his stomach.
Prosecutors were aware of the interview by at least Aug. 7, but didn't disclose it to the defense until Oct. 28, Thao's motion said.
Frank argued the materials Thao demanded included his file from the Armed Forces Medical Examiner, which is a federal agency, and that the state was not required to produce it because it wasn't under the control of their office. After the state requested and received the file, it was given to the defense within nine days.
In response to Thao's argument that the documents should have been turned over within 24 hours as ordered by the court, Frank said "this is a complex case."
"It can be practically difficult -- if not impossible -- to meet the 24-hour deadline," Frank wrote. "The State takes its disclosure obligations seriously and continually endeavors to make disclosures as promptly as it can. The state disclosed these documents to Thao nine days after receiving them and more than six weeks ago."
However, Frank said the state was not opposed to a two-week extension of Thao's deadline to produce expert witnesses.
Abby Simons • 651-925-5043
CREDIT:ABBY SIMONS; STAFF WRITER

Subject: Evidence; Criminal investigations; Attorneys; Murders & murder attempts; Manslaughter

People: Floyd, George

Title: AG office defends handling of Floyd evidence:   Prosecutors say motion to delay trial is an attempt by defense attorneys to buy more time.

Publication title: Star Tribune; Minneapolis, Minn.

First page: B.3

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Dec 20, 2020

Section: NEWS

Publisher: Star Tribune Media Company LLC

Place of publication: Minneapolis, Minn.

Country of publication: United States, Minneapolis, Minn.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 08952825

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2472362116

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ag-office-defends-handling-floyd-evidence/docview/2472362116/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright Star Tribune Media Company LLC Dec 20, 2020

Last updated: 2021-03-18

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 13 of 25

Kwanzaa in 2020: Even dampened by pandemic, the African American celebration will be observed in homes and virtually after George Floyd's death.

Author: Preston, Rohan

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/kwanzaa-2020/docview/2471332537/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=08952825&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=Kwanzaa+in+2020&amp;aulast=Preston%2C+Rohan&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Some people keep decorative lights up well beyond the holidays, trying to extend the twinkling magic of the season. Art teacher and child advocate Gwendolyn Ellis goes one step further. The Maplewood mother of five adult children never puts away her kinara, the candelabra that's central to any observance of Kwanzaa.
In fact, Ellis' mantel displays all the symbols of this African American celebration that begins Dec. 26 and runs through New Year's Day. She wants to see them every day.
"Kwanzaa is not just a seven-day event that you then put away," she said. "The principles like self-determination, creativity and cooperative economics are things we should practice year-round."
Prof. Maulana Karenga of the University of California, Long Beach, founded Kwanzaa in 1966, a year after the Watts neighborhood of Los Angeles erupted in flames for six nights following a violent traffic stop involving a white policeman and a Black driver.
Now a global phenomenon observed in the Americas as well as in Africa and elsewhere, Kwanzaa is taking on sharper meaning in the Twin Cities this year in the wake of the police killing of George Floyd and the Black Lives Matter movement. To be sure, because of the raging pandemic, observances will not culminate in the customary large-scale New Year's Day feast with spoken-word artists, singers, drummers and explosive dancers.
But it will be marked nonetheless.
"The principles of Kwanzaa help with deal
ing with the trauma, craziness and meanness that's going on," said storyteller and retired teacher Beverly Cottman, who, with husband, Bill Cottman, will be lighting candles daily in their Minneapolis home. "I like the principle of self-determination. We will be who we are even though there are external forces causing us to think differently or putting obstacles in our way."
International inspiration
Inspired by Pan-African harvest festivals and other sources, Karenga named the syncretic celebration for the Swahili expression for "first fruits." Kwanzaa is organized around seven principles (the Nguzo Saba), each with its own day of observance.
The cardinal tenets are, in order, unity (umoja), self-determination (kujichagulia), collective work and responsibility (ujima), cooperative economics (ujamaa), purpose (nia), creativity (kuumba), and faith (imani).
"These are universal values, not just for African Americans," said educator and retired school social worker Katie Sample, of Apple Valley.
A revered community elder who has a University of Minnesota reading series named in her honor, Sample has been celebrating Kwanzaa since the early 1980s.
"I was working in the schools and became aware of the overrepresentation of African American boys in programs for behavior disorders," she said. "I started appreciating the concept of celebrating Afrocentric culture to help mitigate the whole situation."
Sample founded the African American Academy for Accelerated Learning in 1988, an educational and enrichment program that included the principles of Kwanzaa as part of the curriculum.
"We did vignettes on the principles and even had values that we recited and taught the children," Sample recalled. "And we encouraged the parents to have it in their home. To this day, I still hear of people who, like me, observe it all year."
Educational push
In fact, educators, both formal and informal, have been central to the spread of Kwanzaa in the Twin Cities.
Minneapolis public school teacher Titilayo Bediako recalled that when she first introduced the idea of Kwanzaa observances to her preteen Minneapolis students in the 1990s, it drew quizzical looks.
"We were having problems with boys, and some of the white educators were saying we would never be able to pull it off," Bediako recalled.
But she hatched a plan to get buy-in from her fifth- and sixth-graders.
"You can't just say you're going to get boys that age to dance," Bediako said. "So, I found a brother who was manly to be on drums, and then we got these African dancers to come in and our celebrations were multicultural because the Lyndale School was equally divided -- one-third of African, Asian and European descent."
What started out as 25 students in her class performing for other classes grew to become a schoolwide and, later, a districtwide Kwanzaa celebration held at the Historic State Theatre. In fact, Bediako recalled that after Sharon Sayles-Belton, Minneapolis' first female and first Black mayor, was defeated by R.T. Rybak, there was serious discussion about the propriety of having the new mayor at the event or even having Black kids come downtown.
"There was fear that our kids would scare off the white suburban theatergoers," Bediako said. "Minneapolis belongs to all its citizens. So we put R.T. in a dashiki, and taught him some Swahili words. It was something that helped community at a moment of hurt."
Through her organization, the We Win Institute, Bediako also has participated in Kwanzaa celebrations at St. Paul's Ordway Center.
Community connections
Other big public celebrations also have taken place at St. Paul's Network for the Development of Children of African Descent (NdCAD) and the Midtown Global Market.
That's where drummer "Baba" Jesse Buckner, founder of the Heart and Soul Drum Academy, led a percussion corps last year.
"Playing drums, dancing and socializing connects communities all over the country and the world," Buckner said. "You can't stand still if you're there. The spirit, the joy, the light, all of that is going to get into you."
Except for the pandemic.
"I want to get a grant to throw the mother of all Kwanzaa celebrations when this is over," Buckner said. "This has been a trying time in all of our lives, but I believe it's for a purpose. In bad times, like a funeral or after a fight, families come together. When this is over, prepare yourself. We're coming back in living color."
While people can't come together in person, the We Win Institute will host a virtual Kwanzaa.
"All of this warms my heart because we have more resources at our disposal now and can still do things together even when we're apart," Cottman said. "And when this thing [pandemic] is over, we can come together, harambee, and get things done."
For Cottman, Kwanzaa is a holistic celebration.
"I find the joy and light in the fact that even as messed up as things are and even though folks are suffering mightily, you don't have to be in despair," Cottman said. "This celebration means that we find ways to alleviate people's pain. Even in a small way, celebrating Kwanzaa can help someone heal."
CREDIT:ROHAN PRESTON; STAFF WRITER

Subject: Principles; African Americans; Children & youth; Kwanzaa; Pandemics

Title: Kwanzaa in 2020:   Even dampened by pandemic, the African American celebration will be observed in homes and virtually after George Floyd's death.

Publication title: Star Tribune; Minneapolis, Minn.

First page: H.1

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Dec 20, 2020

Section: HOMES

Publisher: Star Tribune Media Company LLC

Place of publication: Minneapolis, Minn.

Country of publication: United States, Minneapolis, Minn.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 08952825

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2471332537

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/kwanzaa-2020/docview/2471332537/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright Star Tribune Media Company LLC Dec 20, 2020

Last updated: 2020-12-20

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 14 of 25

GEORGE FLOYD: INSPIRING CHANGE ; FIRST IN A SERIES ; ARTISTS LEAD THE CHANGE ; HOW DID GEORGE FLOYD'S DEATH ALTER THE WAY WE THINK ABOUT THE WORLD? ARTISTS, FOR ONE, HAVE STEPPED UP AS HEALERS AND CHANGE AGENTS.

Author: Preston, Rohan

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/george-floyd/docview/2471332470/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=08952825&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=GEORGE+FLOYD&amp;aulast=Preston%2C+Rohan&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: George Floyd inspiring change • first in a series
Six vibrant murals greeted shoppers at the Nov. 10 reopening of the Target store on E. Lake Street in Minneapolis -- a phoenix moment for a neighborhood set aflame just seven months ago.
Created by five young Black artists in a remarkable partnership between the multibillion-dollar retail chain and a resourceful North Side nonprofit, Juxtaposition Arts, the work reflects how George Floyd's death at the hands of Minneapolis police galvanized artists to think anew about the roles they can play in effecting social change.
Avahnii Lewis, 19, contributed a collage called "Envision Change," inspired by this past summer's protests.
"It's pieced together to represent individuals who are part of a bigger whole," said Lewis, a junior lab director at Juxtaposition who now studies graphic design at Minneapolis Community and Technical College. "Behind those faces are flowers and plants, beauty and life, memorializing those who have passed away."
Like the store itself, Lewis intimated, their spirits will rise into a changed landscape that may move closer to the nation's ideals.
Taking a dream and making it flesh is what artists do -- and now, more than ever, creative acts are what's needed.
Sarah Bellamy, artistic director of St. Paul's Penumbra Theatre, describes Floyd's death as "a shatter moment"
-- something that explodes the bubbles we all live in, revealing a society intimately tied together.
That view, of wreckage and disparities that can't be denied, jibes with how activist artist Sh¡ Cage sees the impact, and the promise, of the tragedy.
"There are so many pieces on the floor and we're picking them up," said Cage. "What's different about this moment is that we're not able to actually step over any of the pieces or the rubble. It's the first time I've experienced anything this visceral and clear about the nation's need for transformative change."
Cage responded to that moment by assembling an anthology of essays, poems and stories by Black artists, called "Moment of Silence," while also working to tackle disparities in philanthropy and bring political change.
Various Twin Cities artists and arts organizations have stepped into the gap. Pillsbury House Theatre and Mixed Blood Theatre became service centers in their neighborhoods. At the grassroots level, the Twin Cities-based Million Artist Movement has led community-created artmaking activities. Founded in 2014 after the police killing of Michael Brown, it has created numerous quilts at vigils and protests.
"What we try to do in these moments of extreme trauma is be present, loving and responsive as we help the community navigate pain," said theater artist Signe Harriday, one of the cooperative's lead organizers. "Art is our vehicle to do that. We live in a world that is deeply and critically impacted by state-sanctioned violence -- it's the fabric that weaves much of the context we find ourselves in at this moment."
Similarly, Bellamy has rebranded Penumbra as a "center for racial healing," expanding the theater's mission to include health and wellness and racial equity.
"The killing of George Floyd is this generation's Emmett Till moment," she said, invoking the 1955 murder of a Black teenager that galvanized the civil rights movement. "We had undeniable, uninterrupted visual footage of a murder -- a shocking and traumatizing thing to witness.
"White folks didn't necessarily know or believe that something like that could happen. But we carry that history in our bodies every day."
Arts have led the way
In some ways, the Twin Cities arts community has anticipated this reckoning faced by realms from sports to business, politics to the pulpit. Companies from the Guthrie and Children's Theatre to the Jungle and Theatre Latt Da have worked to represent diversity both onstage and behind the scenes.
It's not just the faces we see, after all. Who will get to tell stories, and under what terms, as awakened Americans build a future together?
"This question about representation and narrative is a key piece of what folks seem to be turning towards, post-George Floyd," said DeAnna Cummings.
Twenty-five years ago, Cummings co-founded Juxtaposition, the seminal center that has trained Avahnii Lewis and thousands of other young people for art and design careers. Now she's stepping into a broader role as arts program director at the McKnight Foundation, which funnels millions of dollars into the community each year.
"There seems to be a new awakening to the need for BIPOC artists to be centered in story -- to be in charge of the narrative about who we are, where we've been, where we're going, what our dreams are and what we have contributed to this place," said Cummings.
"There was a period of a few months where the cover of nearly every magazine I saw as I checked out had Black folks on them. On the morning shows, they had Black guests on as experts on fitness, relationships, Black doctors. That representation, that shift toward feeling seen and being seen -- I had never seen that in my entire life."
The arts has a role to play in keeping Americans focused on one core fact, said Cummings: "The impact of having a group of people who are a permanent underclass across all social, educational, health, economic and other measurements -- whether you call it white supremacy, inequality, inequity, anti-Blackness -- has hurt all."
Floyd's death caused Minnesotans, and the world, to take a harder look at a state that routinely lands on top 10 lists for its quality of life. What they saw doesn't jibe.
"Minnesota represents a crucible of inequity for Black Americans and Native Americans," Bellamy said. "It's not just about a police officer. It's about the society that dehumanizes Black and Native life and is very polite about its brutal maintenance of these disparities."
At Penumbra, "we're focused on detoxifying the stress and the trauma and on art that can dream new worlds -- dream us into liberation," Bellamy said. "One of the most profound things that the arts can lend to this moment is to bear witness, to not forget the story or allow people to become acclimated to the brutality of this violence.
"The arts can help us keep that heart-line open to people's empathy, and to care for each other."
@rohanpreston • 612-673-4390
Coming up
Monday: Jessica Winnie believes Black-owned businesses need to be a part of the racial reckoning.
Tuesday: Tasha Nims, a Ramsey County librarian, is fielding more requests for books about race and social justice this year.
Wednesday: Anthony Taylor is pushing for more equity in outdoor recreation programs, finding them a form of racial healing.
Thursday: The Lynx's Rebekkah Brunson was a pioneer in pushing for social justice; this year, the reception has been different.
CREDIT:ROHAN PRESTON; STAFF WRITER

Subject: Social justice; Artists; Art; Trauma; Theater; Murders & murder attempts

People: Floyd, George

Title: GEORGE FLOYD:   INSPIRING CHANGE; FIRST IN A SERIES; Artists lead the change; How did George Floyd's death alter the way we think about the world? Artists, for one, have stepped up as healers and change agents.

Publication title: Star Tribune; Minneapolis, Minn.

First page: E.1

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Dec 20, 2020

Section: VARIETY

Publisher: Star Tribune Media Company LLC

Place of publication: Minneapolis, Minn.

Country of publication: United States, Minneapolis, Minn.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 08952825

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2471332470

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/george-floyd/docview/2471332470/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright Star Tribune Media Company LLC Dec 20, 2020

Last updated: 2021-03-31

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 15 of 25

Judge affirms Floyd livestreaming: Cahill says alternatives fail to meet constitutional standards of a public trial.

Author: Sawyer, Liz

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/judge-affirms-floyd-livestreaming/docview/2471558334/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=08952825&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=Judge+affirms+Floyd+livestreaming&amp;aulast=Sawyer%2C+Liz&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: A Hennepin County judge is sticking with his historic decision to livestream the trial of four former Minneapolis police officers charged in the death of George Floyd due to immense global interest in the case and limited courthouse space, according to an order filed Friday.
Judge Peter Cahill dismissed concerns by state prosecutors, who argued last month that recording audio and visuals of the trial would violate court rules and scare away potential witnesses. Attorney General Keith Ellison's office, which is leading the prosecution, asked that Cahill rescind his previous ruling or consider narrowing the scope of outside access.
Cahill declined to modify his original ruling issued Nov. 4, writing that although he is granting more extensive video coverage than allowed in court rules, he is permitted to modify the rules "in any case to prevent manifest injustice."
"Without question, deprivation of the constitutional rights that are the hallmarks of a public criminal trial would be a 'manifest injustice,' " Cahill wrote. "The only real issue then, is whether there is a reasonable alternative to televising the trial that would vindicate the defendants' Sixth Amendment rights and the First Amendment rights of the public and the press. … The Court concludes that televising the trial is the only reasonable and meaningful method to safeguard the Sixth and First Amendment rights implicated in these cases."
A coalition of local and national media companies, including the Star Tribune, filed a memorandum opposing the prosecutors' request, saying that livestreaming is the only option to guarantee constitutional rights to a public trial because the court's closed-circuit technology offers low-quality video and sound. Attorneys for three of the four defendants in the case -- former Minneapolis police officers Derek Chauvin, J. Alexander Kueng and Tou Thao -- also filed memorandums Monday opposing the prosecution's proposal. The three attorneys and Earl Gray, who represents former officer Thomas Lane, previously filed motions requesting cameras in the courtroom.
Cahill again invoked the size of the courtrooms and "unique and unprecedented situation" brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic. One of the Hennepin County Government Center's largest courtrooms has been remodeled to adhere to social distancing requirements. As a result, the public gallery has been removed, and only one seat in the courtroom remains that is not used by a trial participant. If the trial is televised, a technician will occupy the chair.
"It would be farcical to say that this arrangement, by itself, provides meaningful access to the public or the press or vindicates the defendants' right to a public trial," Cahill wrote.
Cahill backed the media coalition's claims that overflow courtrooms are deficient for a public trial, including bad audio and video, and "the likelihood of hundreds (if not thousands) of members of the public and press assembling at the Hennepin County Government Center every day" throughout the trial, complicating social distancing efforts. He also speculated on how many overflow courtrooms would be necessary to accommodate the public.
"Two? Three? Twenty? Should the Fourth Judicial District pause all courtroom activity for the months of March and April 2021 to allow every courtroom in the Hennepin County Government Center to be used as courtrooms for this trial?" Cahill wrote. "At what point does this become televising the trial, but just to a select and limited group?"
Liz Sawyer • 612-673-4648
CREDIT:LIZ SAWYER; STAFF WRITER

Subject: Counties; Social distancing; Local government; Trials; State court decisions; COVID-19; Judges & magistrates

People: Floyd, George

Title: Judge affirms Floyd livestreaming:   Cahill says alternatives fail to meet constitutional standards of a public trial.

Publication title: Star Tribune; Minneapolis, Minn.

First page: B.4

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Dec 19, 2020

Section: NEWS

Publisher: Star Tribune Media Company LLC

Place of publication: Minneapolis, Minn.

Country of publication: United States, Minneapolis, Minn.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 08952825

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2471558334

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/judge-affirms-floyd-livestreaming/docview/2471558334/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright Star Tribune Media Company LLC Dec 19, 2020

Last updated: 2020-12-22

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 16 of 25

2020 IN REVIEW: BEST MUSIC OF THE WORST YEAR ; OUR CRITICS AGREED ON FIONA APPLE'S SONIC OPUS AND THE BOLT-CUTTING VALUE OF 2020'S OTHER GREAT ALBUMS AND SONGS.

Author: Bream, Jon; Riemenschneider, Chris

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/2020-review/docview/2471075955/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=08952825&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=2020+IN+REVIEW&amp;aulast=Bream%2C+Jon%3BRiemenschneider%2C+Chris&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: The year started auspiciously with Grammy-nominated newcomer Yola at the Fine Line, the splashy opening of the Fillmore Minneapolis with three nights of beloved Brandi Carlile, and ultra-warm winter theater shows by Michael Kiwanuka, Kamasi Washington and King Princess.
And then came COVID-19.
Suddenly, all our grand concert plans disappeared. No Kenny Chesney, Rolling Stones or Green Day in Minneapolis stadiums. No arena extravaganzas by the Weeknd, Harry Styles or Rage Against the Machine. No festivals with Carrie Underwood or Luke Combs or the all-female Rock the Garden lineup. Heck, we would've been happy just to see the Doobie Brothers again at the State Fair.
Still, there were plenty of chances -- and reasons -- to listen to the music. A lot of interesting and inspiring albums and singles entered our playlists, and a widespread, albeit hit-and-miss, array of livestreams were available to enjoy, too.
Here's a look back on the musical high points of a year we can never forget.
No concerts? No problem. Some artists got busy in other ways to make their music and messages matter in 2020.
Big shout-out to Taylor Swift, who not only dropped two excellent and unexpected albums (including the year's bestseller) but spoke out louder than ever about voting, women's rights and artists' rights. Bravo, too, to veteran voices Bruce Springsteen and Lucinda Williams for not only delivering noteworthy albums but keeping a steady presence all year long, on SiriusXM and with the themed concert series "Lu's Jukebox," respectively.
In a year in which racial and political unrest gripped America, no voice spoke more forcefully than Killer Mike's. Not only did his Run the Jewels deliver the year's most vibrant and impactful hip-hop album but the MC, the son of a cop, spoke up at a timely rally in his exploding hometown of Atlanta. Other musicians from the Chicks to the Twin Cities' own Sounds of Blackness addressed issues roiling America in 2020. So my year-end lists address the best albums and topical songs that mattered.
10 BEST ALBUMS
1. Fiona Apple, "Fetch the Bolt Cutter." On her first album in eight years, the intense, emotionally raw singer examines her troubled psyche and complicated relationships, set to quirky music filled with percussive rhythms, hip-hop forays and unpredictable turns. Shape-shifting never sounded so urgent and personal.
2. Bob Dylan, "Rough and Rowdy Ways." Without notice, he dropped three singles and then his first album of original material in eight years. Whether swaggering blues, melancholy meditations or pop-culture poetry, the bard is still delivering trenchant, fresh and confoundingly provocative music at age 79.
3. Maria Schneider, "Data Lords." Known for her feisty and thoughtful speeches and articles, big band jazz's brightest star slices, dices and scolds Big Data for all its privacy violations with this remarkably riveting double album, one disc dark and ominous, the other playful and pastoral. This is as profound as modern instrumental music gets.
4. The Chicks, "Gaslighter." Protests, both highly personal and liberatingly universal, make for harmony-filled explosions on the first album in 14 years by the trio formerly known as the Dixie Chicks.
5. Taylor Swift, "Folklore" and "Evermore." The planet's biggest pop supernova went indie rock, with the help of the National's Aaron Dessner and Bon Iver's Justin Vernon, displaying unexpected range, a newly focused vision and a continuing ability to thrust herself into America's moment. And then, five months later, she did it again with a second album that's equally impressive. Talk about pandemic productivity.
6. Run the Jewels, "RTJ4." Killer Mike and El-P compel with their potent flow and timely words, reaching new heights on collabs -- "Pulling the Pin" with Mavis Staples and Josh Homme and "Ju$t" with Pharrell Williams and Zack de la Rocha.
7. Lucinda Williams, "Good Souls Better Angels." In the climate of 2020, the Americana ace's 13th studio album resonates like a protest record with roaring guitars, rattling rhythms and cut-to-the-bone lyrics. But there's a hint of optimism amid all the anger.
8. Chloe x Halle, "Ungodly Hour." Proteges of Beyonc, the sister act, ages 20 and 22, delivered a seamless sophomore collection of modern R&B/pop with nods to past eras, asserting that sisterhood is powerful at any age.
9. Lianne La Havas, "Lianne La Havas." Evoking at turns Sade and Corinne Bailey Rae, the London singer/guitarist chronicles the bittersweet arc of a relationship with her alluring jazzy/folkie third album.
10. Chris Stapleton, "Starting Over." With gritty soulfulness, country music's Tennessee stud proclaims his love for the blues, Southern rock, country ballads, heartfelt folk and Southern soul and ends by announcing that he's leaving Nashville to keep his soul intact.
10 TOPICAL SONGS THAT MATTER
1. Sounds of Blackness, "Sick and Tired." After five decades of preaching positivity, the Twin Cities ensemble got fired up post-George Floyd, adapting civil rights activist Fannie Lou Hamer's classic 1964 refrain into the fiercest, most powerful song in their repertoire. This horn-blasted, gospel-infused call to action is the perfect sound coming from Minneapolis in 2020.
2. The Chicks, "March March." No strangers to controversy, the Chicks declare "march, march to my own drum. I'm an army of one." In this eerie and arresting protest piece framed by haunting fiddle, banjo and slide guitar, they celebrate the importance of letting your voice -- and vote -- be heard.
3. H.E.R., "I Can't Breathe." Backed by a spare beat and atmospheric choir, the 23-year-old R&B star sings with a soulfully aching, yearning voice and adds potent spoken-word passages about generations of pain, fear and anxiety. She demands justice, not revenge.
4. Anderson .Paak, "Lockdown." Released on Juneteenth, this slinky, jazzy hip-hop piece finds the Los Angeles singer/rapper detailing reasons to protest and then having to deal with riot cops
downtown during the coronavirus lockdown. Right on!
5. Lucinda Williams, "Man Without a Soul." With its warbly, slashing guitar, this slow-burn blues tears into a certain president without mentioning his name. The song has more dignity and soul than its target.
6. Bob Dylan, "Murder Most Foul." On the surface, this epic 17-minute incantation is about the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, but it's really more about all the great cultural things that society gave us and how America has lost its spirit, soul and sense of leadership.
7. Run the Jewels, "Ju$t." With an assist from Pharrell Williams and Zack de la Rocha, the passionate duo protests America's economic ills. "Look at all these slave masters posin' on yo dollar." 'Nuff said.
8. Rosanne Cash, "Crawl Into the Promised Land." The oft-outspoken singer-songwriter serves up a haunting, hopeful, swampy acoustic blues anthem. "Deliver me from tweets and lies/ and purify me in the sun," she sings.
9. Nur-D, "Band Aid." With a fast flow reminiscent of Eminem at his best, the Twin Cities MC raps about cops doing racial profiling. He's not afraid to defend his Blackness even it means losing followers in the process.
10. Mickey Guyton, "Black Like Me." Sonically, this piano ballad could fit seamlessly on contemporary country radio. Her heartbreak is about being different in a small town and in Nashville. "If you think we live in the land of the free," the Black country vocalist croons with pain in her voice, "you should try to be Black like me."
Was it a year meant for topical albums that reflect the troubled times, emotional personal epics in touch with our newly isolated lifestyles, or soothing escapist recordings to take us away?
Yes, yes, and yes. All of those qualities can be found in the year's best albums, leading with one of the most important singer-songwriter LPs of the 21st century; which happens to potently fill those first two prescriptions.
Much more on the escapist end, livestreamed and televised performances filled in for concerts in 2020 as best as could be expected. Nothing came close to replacing the power of live music, but at least we can still watch the videos listed below while we wait for 2021's rejuvenation.
10 BEST ALBUMS
1. Fiona Apple, "Fetch the Bolt Cutters." Few albums that elicit this kind of immediate wow with its deliberate sonic punch (trash-can rhythms, guttural vocals, high-wire piano) also offer such simmering lyrical fascination and lingering hooks. Those who were paying attention to rock's most underrated '90s singer could see that she had been working toward this opus for 15 uneasy years, and the payoff is sweet.
2. Waxahatchee, "Saint Cloud." As if she were a year ahead of the rest of us, Alabama indie-rocker Katie Crutchfield seemed to come out of her own anxiety-ridden quarantine on this comforting exhale of a record, part Dolly Parton, Bob Dylan and Neko Case.
3. Run the Jewels, "RTJ4." Hip-hop's unlikely middle-age heroes Killer Mike and El-P -- who were supposed to tour with Rage Against the Machine this summer -- rage against systemic racism, police violence and MAGA lies on this ticking time bomb of a record, which coincidentally dropped a week after the George Floyd tragedy but not so coincidentally fit the times.
4. Idles, "Ultra Mono." It's hard to decipher all the myriad topics these bombastic Bristol, England, punks are ranting about on their third LP, but it was easy to absorb all their middle-finger energy in the year 2020.
5. The Chicks, "Gaslighter." With the tried-and-true topic of D-I-V-O-R-C-E and twangy, old-school harmonies at the fore, their long-awaited comeback record amounted to this year's best country album; never mind that the ex-queens of Dixie veer closer to rock here and are way too feminist for Nashville.
6. Moses Sumney, "Grae." Harp on an R&B album? Falsetto and synths on a classical record? However you categorize this seductively voiced North Carolina singer's 20-song second LP, the listening experience comes off like a long, bold, captivating free-form jazz performance.
7. Sturgill Simpson, "Cuttin' the Grass, Vol. 1." The alt-twang experimenter went back to his Kentucky roots and remade some of his best songs with help from an ace crew of bluegrass pickers, ironically resulting in his most straight-up electrifying album yet.
8. Open Mike Eagle, "Anime, Trauma and Divorce." Chicago rapper Michael Eagle turned in a touching and surprisingly funny record that stares down personal strife with his smart, self-inflicting writing style and love for comic-book culture.
9. Kehlani, "It Was Good Until It Wasn't." An intoxicating mix of chilled-out R&B grooves and stone-cold lyrics all about toxic relationships from the Oakland singer and rapper.
10. Bob Mould, "Blue Hearts." The ex-Hüsker Dü punk hero planned to take the year off but instead hammered out his angriest record in two decades, railing against faux-Christian haters the way he did way back when on "Zen Arcade."
10 GREAT ON-SCREEN PERFORMANCES
(*Ones you can still view online or on TV.)
1. David Byrne, "American Utopia." Filmmaker Spike Lee's concert film for HBO offered a close-up view of the oddly alluring, constantly moving, onstage energy of the ex-Talking Heads singer's tour-turned-Broadway-show without spoiling the magic of it.
2. Beyonc, "Black Is King." Though not actually based on a live performance, this truly spectacular eye-candy art film unfolded on the Disney-Plus channel very much like a good concert, complete with dazzling costume and backdrop changes.
3. Run the Jewels, "RTJ4" Adult Swim concert. One of the best live acts of the past decade lived up to that reputation with this high-adrenaline hi-fi tear through their new album, with guest vocalists Pharrell Williams and Mavis Staples playfully (and safely) piped in.
4. Post Malone's Nirvana tribute. We knew the Dallas singer with the tattooed face was more talented than his often boneheaded pop hits suggest, but we didn't know he could rock as impressively and purely as he did to raise $3 million for COVID relief.
5. Jason Isbell & Amanda Shires, "Live at Brooklyn Bowl Nashville." The royal Americana couple had to mark the release of his "Reunions" album sans the full band, but with the added charm of an intimate, cozy setting in a real venue.
6. Megan Thee Stallion, "Live at Red Rocks." With two of the year's biggest hits to her name ("W.A.P." and "Savage"), the Houston rapper struck the red-hot iron with this sizzling virtual concert co-helmed by the same choreography team as Beyonc's legendary Coachella set.
7. Jackie Venson and Mavis Staples, "Austin City Limits." The blues-rocker rose to the stature of fellow homegrown "ACL" forbears Stevie Ray Vaughan and Gary Clark Jr., even without a studio audience, while also powerfully addressing racial tensions. Which made Staples a great pairing with a 2012 rebroadcast from rock's most uplifting voice.
8. Hold Steady, "Massive Nights." This fifth annual three-night run by New York's favorite band of Midwesterners at Brooklyn Bowl nobly tried to be as close as possible to the real thing and, to paraphrase Edina expat Craig Finn, I'm pretty sure we all partied.
9. Neil Young, "Fireside Sessions." His down-home approach and wing-it attitude in these series of mountainside mini-concerts were nicely offset by his political purposefulness and wife Darryl Hannah's filmmaker know-how. Part of a trove of free stuff now up at NeilYoungArchives.com.
10. One World: Together at Home. While hardly the virtual answer to Live Aid -- not when no one's actually performing live -- this mega-telethon back in April did produce memorable at-home performances by the Rolling Stones, Taylor Swift, Stevie Wonder and Lizzo, whose "A Change Is Gonna Come" sounds even more powerful at year's end.
@JonBream • 612-673-1719
@ChrisRStrib • 612-673-4658
CREDIT:JON BREAM; CHRIS RIEMENSCHNEIDER; STAFF WRITERS

Subject: Songwriters; Musicians & conductors; Racial profiling; Musical performances; Coronaviruses; Singers; COVID-19

Location: Nashville Tennessee

People: Williams, Lucinda; La Havas, Lianne; Swift, Taylor; Killer Mike; Floyd, George; Apple, Fiona; Dylan, Bob (1941- )

Company / organization: Name: Run the Jewels; NAICS: 711130; Name: Rage Against the Machine; NAICS: 711130

Title: 2020 IN REVIEW:   Best music of the worst year; Our critics agreed on Fiona Apple's sonic opus and the bolt-cutting value of 2020's other great albums and songs.

Publication title: Star Tribune; Minneapolis, Minn.

First page: E.1

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Dec 18, 2020

Section: VARIETY

Publisher: Star Tribune Media Company LLC

Place of publication: Minneapolis, Minn.

Country of publication: United States, Minneapolis, Minn.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 08952825

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2471075955

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/2020-review/docview/2471075955/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright Star Tribune Media Company LLC Dec 18, 2020

Last updated: 2020-12-18

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 17 of 25

State's racist past - and present

Author: Medcalf, Myron

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/states-racist-past-present/docview/2471075978/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=08952825&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=State%27s+racist+past+-+and+present&amp;aulast=Medcalf%2C+Myron&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: In the 1850s, my great-great-great-grandmother, Mary Ann Key, was just 14 years old when she was purchased for $1,000 by a slave owner named William B. Key at an auction in Georgia, per my family's records.
I live with the knowledge that a white man once bought the matriarch of my family for a price that's less than the average monthly rent of a one-bedroom apartment in Minneapolis.
Understanding my family's lineage at a young age encouraged my passion to learn about Black history.
By reading, I came to know about important figures such as Malcolm X through Alex Haley's "The Autobiography of Malcolm X." But more obscure figures and works deserve our consideration, too. John D'Emilio's book, "Lost Prophet: The Life and Times of Bayard Rustin," details the life of an influential civil rights leader who stood next to Martin Luther King Jr. while also enduring the scrutiny of being a Black member of the LGBT community.
"The Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass: An American Slave" is an essential book about one of history's most important figures. "Notes of a Native Son" is perfection from James Baldwin on race relations in America and Europe. I've enjoyed the modern tales, too. I'm currently digesting Jesmyn Ward's "The Fire This Time: A New Generation Speaks about Race," in which the author concludes that she knows "what a good portion of Americans think of my worth."
To ponder the past is not an optional quest for a Black person in this country. Yesterday's racism and inequities have shaped the present for a community of more than 40 million people, and they will certainly impact our collective future, too.
While I'm encouraged by the ardent attraction to literature about the Black experience in a place where more people have identified as anti-racist since George Floyd's killing, I'm also concerned about a community that seems to lack the same fervor to explore the past.
The latter is essential in any conversation about the eradication of racism and prejudice. The individual determination to live a life that recognizes and discourages inequality is important. But it can also breed a narrow view of the issues while promoting the rejection of systemic racism and the dangers of complicity.
That's why it's important to expand your reading lists this holiday season.
Christopher Lehman, a professor of ethnic studies at St. Cloud State, has written a book called "Slavery's Reach: Southern Slaveholders in the North Star State," which explores Minnesota's connection to the slave trade as a tourism hub for wealthy slave owners.
Per Lehman, a few state lawmakers had even proposed a bill in the 1860s to make Minnesota a slave state -- it was voted down -- to entice tourists who owned slaves. He said the presentation of the past is difficult for some because it demands a more complicated conversation about the tentacles of history, which books detail. (He recommended Eric Foner's "The Second Founding," which analyzes the impact of Reconstruction.) "It has been 55 short years since the Voting Act," Lehman said. "To really get to some healing, you have to dig deep."
Steffan Spencer, an assistant professor of African history at the University of Minnesota Duluth, said students on the predominantly white campus are hungry to learn. He said his conversations in his classes often center on what they did not learn before college.
He said books, such as Michelle Alexander's "The New Jim Crow: Mass Incarceration in the Age of Colorblindness," Harriet A. Washington's "Medical Apartheid" and Sven Beckert and Seth Rockman's "Slavery's Capitalism," speak to the long-lasting effects of racism in America.
He said his students are "relating better to the world around them" as they learn more about the history of slavery and institutional racism. A true inspection of the persistent structural barriers for African Americans, he said, also yields an understanding of the gaps that exist because of them. He cited a 2016 study by the Corporation for Enterprise Development and Institute for Policy Studies that said it would take African Americans 228 years to accumulate the amount of wealth white Americans have today.
"I think that there is a lot of resistance to structural, institutional change," Spencer said.
A lack of understanding too, said William Green, a renowned history professor at Augsburg University who has written books about Minnesota's connection to slavery, including "Degrees of Freedom: The Origins of Civil Rights in Minnesota, 1865-1912" and "The Children of Lincoln: White Paternalism and the Limits of Black Opportunity in Minnesota, 1860-1876."
He said Minnesotans were surprised that "George Floyd could happen here," in part because so many hadn't grappled with the state's true history of race relations.
He said reading a wide range of material about Black history is the key to knowing the steps that have led to this critical moment. It can also help counter the inaction by some who view the issues as too large and insurmountable to confront.
"Some people throw their hands up and say, 'What am I supposed to do?' " Green said. "The conclusion is they do nothing. But that's not the solution."
What is? I think about that question a lot.
And I always come back to this idea: ongoing dedication to education, which facilitates dialogue and tangible change. I'm not sure any effort against racism can thrive without that approach.
That's why I'll soon announce a new book club, where we'll discuss important books and issues periodically throughout 2021. We're working on the book club details, and in the meantime, I'd like to know if you're interested in participating, so shoot me an e-mail or a DM on Twitter if you are.
I aim to extend and strengthen the conversation. Perhaps this will help.
Either way, I'll keep reading. I hope you will too.
Myron Medcalf is a local columnist for the Star Tribune and a national writer and radio host for ESPN. His column appears in print on Sundays twice a month and also online.
myron.medcalf@startribune.com
Twitter: @MedcalfByESPN
CREDIT:MYRON MEDCALF

Subject: Writers; African Americans; Racism; Race relations; Slavery; Black history; Civil rights; Book clubs; Reading

Location: United States--US; Minnesota

People: Malcolm X; Floyd, George

Title: State's racist past - and present

Publication title: Star Tribune; Minneapolis, Minn.

First page: B.1

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Dec 13, 2020

Section: NEWS

Publisher: Star Tribune Media Company LLC

Place of publication: Minneapolis, Minn.

Country of publication: United States, Minneapolis, Minn.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 08952825

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2471075978

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/states-racist-past-present/docview/2471075978/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright Star Tribune Media Company LLC Dec 13, 2020

Last updated: 2021-09-01

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 18 of 25

Mpls. safety plan forged through compromise: Week of harried votes produced a budget with reforms that won't gut police staff.

Author: Navratil, Liz

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mpls-safety-plan-forged-through-compromise/docview/2471075278/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=08952825&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=Mpls.+safety+plan+forged+through+compromise&amp;aulast=Navratil%2C+Liz&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: There were hundreds of calls from impassioned residents. Accusations of deception. A flurry of phone calls seeking vote tallies. A mayoral veto threat and a flip-flop by the council vice president.
At the end of a dramatic week, though, the Minneapolis City Council and Mayor Jacob Frey united to adopt a city budget that will trim the Police Department to create new mental health teams, boost violence prevention programs and redirect some nonviolent 911 calls to other city departments.
Reaching agreement on the 2021 budget -- their first full one since George Floyd's death -- meant overcoming divisions that reflected sharp differences in public opinion. While some residents wanted city leaders to make more drastic cuts to the police, others urged them to keep staffing intact as the city struggles with a rise in violent crime.
"Of course, with George Floyd's killing with MPD and the summer with shifting crime rates and increases in homicides and carjackings, there's a lot of scrutiny on all of the public safety work," Council President Lisa Bender said. She said the budget negotiations reflected the city leaders' struggle to balance "how to talk about this very long-term investment in examining our public safety system in this particular moment in our city's history."
At times, the council members publicly clashed and questioned one another's motives. Other days, they attempted to be conciliatory.
They entered the week with a plan to cut an additional $8 million from the $179 million that Frey had proposed for the Police Department next year.
Already on the table was one compromise, which would use $5 million of excess money in
the city's general fund to offset cuts to police overtime. Chief Medaria Arradondo said the overtime money was desperately needed to ensure officers can respond to 911 calls while they are short-staffed amid a wave of resignations and PTSD claims.
There was one caveat: that the money would be placed in a new reserve fund and would be released only at the council's discretion next year.
Council Member Jeremy Schroeder, who wrote the proposal to offset the cuts, described it as an effort to increase accountability and transparency and to avoid ultimately having to take money out of the city's contingency fund. The city's agreement with the police union says they are entitled to overtime if they work more than a certain number of hours each month.
"I'm very certain we're going to need that money for overtime," Schroeder said in a public meeting last week. Still, he said, he believes police funding deserves more scrutiny.
Council members worked individually through each component of the plan during a lengthy meeting Monday, signing off on it with few changes. Along the way, they considered several amendments. Council Member Linea Palmisano, chairwoman of the budget committee, wrote many of them and often sought to fund the same concepts, but without cutting the police budget at the same levels.
"It was about getting buy-in, for trying to get seven votes," she said, referring to the number of votes needed for an item to pass. "It was about trying to appeal to as many of my colleagues as possible, while also trying to capture the spirit that I thought everybody would agree on."
Most of her proposals failed by a narrow margin.
Another part of the plan -- written by Bender, Phillipe Cunningham and Steve Fletcher -- narrowly passed and prompted Frey to threaten to veto the budget.
While his plan would have about 770 officers working in 2021, he wanted to keep the authorized force size listed at its current level of 888 to clear the way for hiring more officers in future years. The council voted 7-6 Monday to drop it to 750. Some council members said they thought that was more reflective of the force's true size, and that leaving the target level listed higher was misleading.
Losing that fight meant Frey would also lose some political leverage next year, when the 2022 budget is voted on. If he wanted to hire back close to that 888 number, he would have to ask a council -- with nine members who had pledged to end the department -- to consider increasing the budget beyond its initial projected size.
The mayor issued a statement saying he was worried about a "massive, permanent cut to officer capacity."
In the two days that followed, city leaders exchanged phone calls with one another, many conducting unofficial vote counts as they tried to predict whether they could usher in last-minute changes or uphold the ones they had already made.
Late Wednesday night, shortly before they had to take a final vote on the city's entire spending package, they voted 7-6 to maintain the authorized force at 888, reversing their decision from Monday. Council Vice President Andrea Jenkins was the swing vote.
"The reality right now is that Chief Arradondo is woefully understaffed for a variety of reasons," Jenkins said in the meeting. "Do I believe that this effort will resolve all of our problems, all of our crime issues overnight? Absolutely not. Neither will all of the social service programs and initiatives. It's going to take all of these things together to lower the crime rate."
That change brought Frey on board, and he signed the budget Friday.
The mayor said he supported many of the council's proposals but, for him, the argument was "fully and exclusively" about whether to fund the new programs at the expense of the Police Department.
"Never once did any member of the council put forward anything that would go against safety beyond policing," he said. "That is an area of complete unity."
Liz Navratil • 612-673-4994
MINNEAPOLIS' NEW PUBLIC SAFETY PLAN
Minneapolis City Council members approved a budget last week that makes their largest changes yet to policing and public safety since George Floyd's death. Before they took a final vote, the council members voted individually on the six largest pieces of the package. Sometimes, they considered alternatives. Here's a snapshot of how those votes unfolded.
Mental Health Services initial proposal
Cuts about $5.7 million from the Police Department to expand violence prevention and mental health programs.
Moves responsibility for theft and property damage reports to other departments and adds civilians to the Office of Police Conduct Review.
The money had been earmarked for police overtime, the mounted patrol unit and a new system to flag troubling behavior among officers.
Alternate proposed
Creates a roughly $4 million fund to support many of the same efforts, as pilot programs. Most of that money comes from savings they would get by extending a hiring freeze. Fails 6-7
Alternate 2 proposed
Leaves most of the proposal intact but funds the early warning system for officers, instead of adding people to the Office of Police Conduct Review. Fails 6-7
Initial proposal passes 11-2
In favor: Kevin Reich, Cam Gordon, Phillipe Cunningham, Jeremiah Ellison, Jamal Osman, Andrea Jenkins, Alondra Cano, Lisa Bender, Jeremy Schroeder, Andrew Johnson, Steve Fletcher
Against: Lisa Goodman, Linea Palmisano
Community navigators initial proposal
Moves community navigators and a manager from the Police Department to the Office of Violence Prevention, transferring nearly $600,000. Community navigators connect crime victims with services.
Alternate proposed
Leaves community navigators in the Police Department but seeks to boost accountability for the program. Fails 5-8
Initial passes 10-3
In favor: Gordon, Cunningham, Ellison, Osman, Goodman, Jenkins, Bender, Schroeder, Johnson, Fletcher
Against: Reich, Cano, Palmisano
Crime prevention initial proposal
Moves all 17 Crime Prevention Specialists from the Police Department to the Neighborhood & Community Relations Department, transferring nearly $1.5 million. These workers send out crime alerts and coordinate with block clubs.
Alternate proposed
Moves 11 Crime Prevention Specialists from the Police Department to the Neighborhood & Community Relations Department, transferring about $1.1 million. Also moves the police spokesperson back into the Police Department, reversing a move council made earlier this year. Fails 3-10
Initial passes 13-0
Reserve fund initial proposal
Creates a Public Safety Staffing Reserve fund that will hold money the Police Department can access, if the council agrees to release it in separate votes next year. They moved $6.4 million for two out of three recruit classes into the fund.
Alternate proposed
Creates the same reserve fund, but releases the money after the Police Department submits a public, quarterly report.
The fund would hold $11.4 million, to offset cuts to overtime and fund two recruit classes. Fails 6-7
Initial passes 9-3-1
In favor: Reich, Gordon, Cunningham, Ellison, Osman, Jenkins, Bender, Schroeder, Fletcher
Against: Goodman, Cano, Palmisano
Abstain: Johnson
Police force size initial proposal
Reduces the authorized sworn force size from 888 to 750, starting in 2022. This passed 7-6 on Monday, but the council reversed that decision 7-6 on Wednesday, with Jenkins serving as the swing vote.
Passes 7-6, reversed 7-6
In favor: Gordon, Cunningham, Ellison, Bender, Schroeder, Fletcher Against: Reich, Osman, Goodman, Cano, Johnson, Palmisano
Swing: Jenkins
Offsetting cuts initial proposal
Moves $5 million of excess money in the general fund to the new Public Safety Staffing Reserve to offset cuts to police overtime, if council agrees to release the money.
Initial passes 10-3
In favor: Reich, Gordon, Cunningham, Osman, Goodman, Jenkins, Cano, Schroeder, Johnson, Palmisano
Against: Ellison, Bender, Fletcher
Source: City of Minneapolis
LIZ NAVRATIL, JOSH PENROD and MARK BOSWELL • Star Tribune
CREDIT:LIZ NAVRATIL; STAFF WRITER

Subject: Workforce planning; Violence; Mayors; Police departments; Mental health; Councils; Community relations; Crime prevention; Public safety; Budgets; Murders & murder attempts; Accountability

Business indexing term: Subject: Workforce planning Budgets

People: Floyd, George

Title: Mpls. safety plan forged through compromise:   Week of harried votes produced a budget with reforms that won't gut police staff.

Publication title: Star Tribune; Minneapolis, Minn.

First page: B.1

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Dec 13, 2020

Section: NEWS

Publisher: Star Tribune Media Company LLC

Place of publication: Minneapolis, Minn.

Country of publication: United States, Minneapolis, Minn.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 08952825

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2471075278

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/mpls-safety-plan-forged-through-compromise/docview/2471075278/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright Star Tribune Media Company LLC Dec 13, 2020

Last updated: 2020-12-18

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 19 of 25

Defense wants Floyd case prosecutors sanctioned: Attorneys say the sharing of evidence was delayed; they want trial moved to July.

Author: Xiong, Chao

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/defense-wants-floyd-case-prosecutors-sanctioned/docview/2471558138/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=08952825&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=Defense+wants+Floyd+case+prosecutors+sanctioned&amp;aulast=Xiong%2C+Chao&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Prosecutors in the George Floyd case delayed sharing important evidence with defense attorneys for months and should be sanctioned by the court, attorneys for one of the defendants in the case argued Friday.
Robert Paule and Natalie Paule, who represent former Minneapolis police officer Tou Thao, filed a motion Friday asking Hennepin County District Judge Peter Cahill to move their client's trial forward four months from March 8 to July 5 because of the delays.
Thao and former police officers Derek Chauvin, J. Alexander Kueng and Thomas Lane are charged in Floyd's May 25 killing in Minneapolis. They are scheduled to be tried together.
"The State has repeatedly disclosed discovery months after the Court ordered them to do so and has caused harm to the Defense's preparation for trial, which in turn is endangering Mr. Thao's federal and state Constitutional guaranteed rights to a fair trial," Thao's attorneys wrote, adding that the delays were intentional.
Attorney General Keith Ellison, whose office is leading the prosecution with assistance from the Hennepin County Attorney's Office, rejected the accusations.
"The defense motion is without merit," Ellison said. "The state disputes the defense's inaccurate characterizations, and we look forward to providing the facts in our response to the court."
The County Attorney's Office declined to comment, as did Kueng's attorney, Thomas Plunkett. Chauvin's attorney, Eric Nelson, and Lane's attorney, Earl Gray, could not be reached for comment.
Cahill issued an order on June 30 requiring prosecutors to share all evidence with defense attorneys by Aug. 14. He also ordered any evidence prosecutors came across after that deadline to be shared within 24 hours.
"Failure to make timely disclosure will presumptively result in preclusion of any matter not disclosed," Cahill wrote.
According to the motion by Thao's attorneys, prosecutors delayed sharing more than 15,000 pages of evidence over eight different incidents. They also failed to abide by the 24-hour rule for evidence that was discovered late.
Thao's attorneys took particular issue with a delay in sharing an interview that Hennepin County Chief Medical Examiner Andrew Baker gave to investigators on July 8.
Baker told investigators that Floyd's death was caused by his health issues combined with his exertion and restraint by police before he was eventually pinned on his stomach in the street.
Prosecutors were aware of the interview by at least Aug. 7, according to the attorneys' motion, but didn't disclose it to the defense until Oct. 28 -- well after a Sept. 11 hearing in which both sides discussed a host of issues related to the case.
According to the motion, prosecutors "knowingly withheld evidence that their medical examiner opined that the police restraint of George Floyd on the ground did not cause his death. … Not only did this disclosure violate the Court's Order, but it appears to have been done in a manner designed to handicap the Defendant's Motion to Dismiss for Lack of Probable Cause."
Attorneys for all four defendants filed separate motions earlier this year to dismiss the case against their clients. Cahill issued a ruling denying the motions on Oct. 21, seven days before the state disclosed the Baker interview.
Because the state had failed to meet its discovery obligations, Thao's attorneys argue, the defense "has been unfairly disadvantaged in its ability to prepare for trial -- specifically with regards to its expert witnesses."
Thao's attorneys asked Cahill to extend the deadline for disclosing the witnesses and to order the state to pay for attorneys' fees and costs caused by the delays.
Defense attorneys have until Tuesday to share with prosecutors and the judge an initial list of expert witnesses they might call at trial.
Chao Xiong • 612-270-4708
Twitter: @ChaoStrib
CREDIT:CHAO XIONG; STAFF WRITER

Subject: Evidence; Witnesses; Court hearings & proceedings; Attorneys; Trials; State court decisions

People: Floyd, George; Chauvin, Derek

Title: Defense wants Floyd case prosecutors sanctioned:   Attorneys say the sharing of evidence was delayed; they want trial moved to July.

Publication title: Star Tribune; Minneapolis, Minn.

First page: B.1

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Dec 12, 2020

Section: NEWS

Publisher: Star Tribune Media Company LLC

Place of publication: Minneapolis, Minn.

Country of publication: United States, Minneapolis, Minn.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 08952825

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2471558138

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/defense-wants-floyd-case-prosecutors-sanctioned/docview/2471558138/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright Star Tribune Media Company LLC Dec 12, 2020

Last updated: 2021-04-07

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 20 of 25

George Floyd billboard rejected by Clear Channel: Identical one went up in Times Square in October.

Author: Olson, Rochelle

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/george-floyd-billboard-rejected-clear-channel/docview/2469408147/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=08952825&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=George+Floyd+billboard+rejected+by+Clear+Channel&amp;aulast=Olson%2C+Rochelle&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: National advertising firm Clear Channel Outdoor canceled a billboard order for downtown Minneapolis on Thursday because it featured an artist's depiction of George Floyd's death.
Brooklyn-based artist Don Perlis received an e-mail notice Thursday from Clear Channel account executive Beau Ryan saying the billboard image was rejected because it "depicts acts of violence."
The image on the planned Minneapolis billboard is identical to one displayed for most of November in Times Square in New York City. It depicts a Perlis oil-on-canvas painting titled "Floyd" that the artist created shortly after Floyd died in Minneapolis police custody on May 25. Bystander video of Floyd's death was broadcast widely and stirred global unrest about police tactics and violence.
The artist's painting, which was to be replicated on a 24-by-7-foot billboard, shows Floyd on the ground, his face turned toward the viewer. Three police officers restraining him are shown from behind and a fourth officer is standing in the background, gazing away from Floyd and his fellow officers.
The billboard's sponsor was the George Floyd Justice Billboard Committee, a group of New York-based artists who created an online fundraising page to raise money to erect the billboard throughout the country. Identical billboards are scheduled to go up next month in Atlanta and Los Angeles.
"It's our strong belief that art is very important in social justice movements," said Corinne Basabe, chairwoman of the billboard committee. She added that images of fire hoses and dogs being trained on Black demonstrators helped sustain the civil rights movement in the 1960s.
"If it weren't for art, I would still be sitting in the back of the bus in the year 2020," she said.
The Minneapolis billboard -- which was to go up Jan. 11 at 1601 S. Hennepin Av., overlooking the Minneapolis Community and Technical College campus and across the street from the Basilica of St. Mary -- also was to feature a quote from the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.: "Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere." The New York billboard had a quote from the Dalai Lama: "Be kind whenever possible. It is always possible."
With the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and the recent presidential election, Basabe said she was concerned that Floyd's death is fading from public memory.
"I think it's important that we still remember the horror of what happened to him that sparked a movement internationally," she said. "It's also a work of art. It's telling the truth."
She drew a comparison to Picasso's complex masterpiece "Guernica," a powerful 1937 antiwar mural. Basabe said she viewed the Perlis painting as "documenting what happened."
Perlis said word of the Minneapolis billboard's cancellation came as a surprise.
He said he found it odd that the violent video of Floyd's death has been broadcast worldwide on all sorts of platforms but his artistic depiction has been censored.
"The painting is sad, but it's not violent really. You'd have to know what's happening," Perlis said, adding that Christ's crucifixion is a violent scene that's in every art museum and church in the world.
In an e-mail to Perlis, Clear Channel's Ryan said the message and quote were fine, but asked, "Is there another image (maybe just of George Floyd) that you can switch out the image for?"
Ryan also offered to refund the $7,470 cost of the billboard. Neither he nor Clear Channel branch manager Dan Ballard responded Thursday to e-mails or calls seeking comment.
Basabe said the committee won't give up on getting a billboard up in Minneapolis. "We're exploring every possibility," she said.
The four former Minneapolis police officers facing criminal charges in Floyd's death are scheduled to go on trial March 8 in Hennepin County District Court in Minneapolis, just over a mile from the billboard site.
Rochelle Olson • 612-673-1747
Twitter: @rochelleolson
CREDIT:ROCHELLE OLSON; STAFF WRITER

Subject: Billboards; Committees; Art galleries & museums; Artists; COVID-19; Painting; Murders & murder attempts

Business indexing term: Subject: Billboards

Location: New York

People: Floyd, George

Title: George Floyd billboard rejected by Clear Channel:   Identical one went up in Times Square in October.

Publication title: Star Tribune; Minneapolis, Minn.

First page: B.1

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Dec 11, 2020

Section: NEWS

Publisher: Star Tribune Media Company LLC

Place of publication: Minneapolis, Minn.

Country of publication: United States, Minneapolis, Minn.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 08952825

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2469408147

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/george-floyd-billboard-rejected-clear-channel/docview/2469408147/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright Star Tribune Media Company LLC Dec 11, 2020

Last updated: 2021-04-22

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 21 of 25

Teen who shot Floyd video is honored

Author: Walsh, Paul

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/teen-who-shot-floyd-video-is-honored/docview/2469399469/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=08952825&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=Teen+who+shot+Floyd+video+is+honored&amp;aulast=Walsh%2C+Paul&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: The Minneapolis teenager whose video of George Floyd dying under the knee of a police officer inspired global outrage received a prestigious award from Oscar-winning director Spike Lee in a virtual ceremony that included recognition from other notables.
"I'm so proud of my sister," Lee said of Darnella Frazier, who shot the video of Floyd and posted it on social media. "She documented the murder of George Floyd -- our brother, King Floyd -- and that footage reverberated around this God's Earth, and people took to the streets."
Frazier, sitting on her living room couch, followed Lee, saying, "I never would imagine out of my whole 17 years of living that this will be me."
She looked down, paused to gather her emotions and continued, "It's just a lot to take in. But I couldn't say thank you enough for everything that's been coming toward me."
Until accepting the 2020 Benenson Courage Award from New York-based PEN America on Tuesday, Frazier had not spoken publicly about her role in telling the story of Floyd's death on May 25 beyond what she said to the Star Tribune the next day. "The world needed to see what I was seeing," she said then. "Stuff like this happens in silence too many times."
Frazier documented the arrest of Floyd, who fell into unconsciousness as now-fired police officer Derek Chauvin kept his knee on Floyd's neck for about nine minutes at the intersection of S. Chicago Avenue and E. 38th Street. Floyd died that same night.
The video quickly spread across social media and in news reports, leading to protests around the world. Chauvin, who is white, and three other fired officers await trial on various murder and manslaughter charges in connection with the Black man's death.
The portion of the ceremony honoring Frazier closed with many on-camera thank-yous, including from actor Meryl Streep, U.S. Sen. Cory Booker and previous Courage Award honorees, including Anita Hill, who testified against the Supreme Court nomination of Clarence Thomas during Senate confirmation hearings.
"Your quick thinking and bravery under pressure has made the world safer and more just," Hill said.
Joining Frazier in receiving the Courage Award was former U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine Marie Yovanovitch, who was forced out of her job last year by the Trump administration. Yovanovitch was recalled from Kiev as unofficial Trump envoy Rudy Giuliani pressed Ukrainian officials to investigate unsubstantiated corruption allegations against 2020 presidential candidate Joe Biden and his son Hunter.
Previous Courage Award honorees include student gun violence activists from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School Cameron Kasky, Samantha Fuentes, and Zion Kelly; the Women's March; Flint, Mich., contaminated water whistleblowers LeeAnne Walters and Dr. Mona Hanna-Attisha; and the surviving staff of the French publication Charlie Hebdo, honored in the wake of the killings of 12 of their colleagues.
This year's PEN America ceremony was held virtually due to the coronavirus pandemic.
Paul Walsh • 612-673-4482
CREDIT:PAUL WALSH; STAFF WRITER

Subject: Rites & ceremonies; Presidential elections; Social networks; Murders & murder attempts

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: United States--US

People: Floyd, George

Company / organization: Name: PEN America; NAICS: 513120

Title: Teen who shot Floyd v ideo is honored

Publication title: Star Tribune; Minneapolis, Minn.

First page: B.3

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Dec 11, 2020

Section: NEWS

Publisher: Star Tribune Media Company LLC

Place of publication: Minneapolis, Minn.

Country of publication: United States, Minneapolis, Minn.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 08952825

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2469399469

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/teen-who-shot-floyd-video-is-honored/docview/2469399469/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright Star Tribune Media Company LLC Dec 11, 2020

Last updated: 2022-05-05

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 22 of 25

Split St. Paul Council OKs budget that avoids layoffs

Author: Prather, Shannon

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/split-st-paul-council-oks-budget-that-avoids/docview/2468759394/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=08952825&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=Split+St.+Paul+Council+OKs+budget+that+avoids+layoffs&amp;aulast=Prather%2C+Shannon&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: The St. Paul City Council passed its 2021 budget on a split vote Wednesday, with two council members saying it didn't make deep enough cuts to the police department.
The council approved the approximately $633 million budget on a 5-2 vote with Council Members Mitra Jalali and Nelsie Yang voting no.
The 2021 budget is $3 million less than 2020 and includes cuts to departments across the city, including police. The city faced a nearly $20 million deficit heading into 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic and resulting economic crisis, but leaders avoided using emergency reserves, laying off employees or raising the property tax levy. The city ultimately had a smaller shortfall than expected, because of additional grant dollars and revenue performing better than anticipated.
The 2021 levy will be about $165 million, the same as in 2020.
But Jalali said the budget did not adequately respond to community demands to defund and reform police.
"After a year where Minnesota made national news and continues to for the police murder of George Floyd, and we spent weeks in a state of constant uprising and civil unrest as a rightful reaction to that injustice, this budget does very little to change the police funding status quo," Jalali said before the vote. "I am personally struggling to understand and I'm very frustrated that our council proposal would show so little movement on the most prominent national conversation about police funding we have had in recent memory."
About $104.7 million of the city's general fund will go to the police department in 2021, a decline of about $800,000 from the previous year, according to the city.
Jalali questioned the benefits of the police department's K-9 unit and community engagement division, which combined cost the city millions of dollars. She also referenced the Nov. 28 St. Paul Police shooting of an unarmed Black man.
"We need to be bold and we need to be courageous," Yang said. "We definitely let a lot of people down."
Other council members defended the budget, which they say protects taxpayers from steep increases and cuts the police budget while funding alternatives. Heading into the 2022 budget, a Community-First Public Safety Commission will suggest non-police responses for the lowest-priority 911 calls.
"In supporting this budget I am absolutely not supporting the status quo with regard to public safety," said Council Member Rebecca Noecker. "All of us have been really clear we know the murder of George Floyd requires a complete rethinking of how we insure safety in our community."
But Noecker said there needs to be time to thoughtfully consider changes "rather than indiscriminately hacking away at the police budget."
Council Member Jane Prince pointed out that the police budget includes $3.7 million in attrition.
"In other words, police have to resign or retire in 2021 until there's $3.7 million in savings before another police officer can be hired," Prince said. "We are effectively going to be seeing a cut of 30 to 40 officers in 2021 … I worry about this."
Mayor Melvin Carter released his budget proposal in August. The council negotiated some changes before Wednesday's vote, including restoring some funding for libraries, recreation centers and road maintenance.
Council President Amy Brendmoen said the impact on residents was top of mind throughout the budget process.
"The council's top priority was to keep the levy as low as possible to help our families and businesses who are struggling from COVID," she said.
Shannon Prather • 651-925-5037
CREDIT:SHANNON PRATHER; STAFF WRITER

Subject: Police departments; Councils; Public safety; Funding; COVID-19

People: Floyd, George

Title: Split St. Paul Council OKs budget that avoids layoffs

Publication title: Star Tribune; Minneapolis, Minn.

First page: B.1

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Dec 10, 2020

Section: NEWS

Publisher: Star Tribune Media Company LLC

Place of publication: Minneapolis, Minn.

Country of publication: United States, Minneapolis, Minn.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 08952825

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2468759394

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/split-st-paul-council-oks-budget-that-avoids/docview/2468759394/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright Star Tribune Media Company LLC Dec 10, 2020

Last updated: 2020-12-10

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 23 of 25

Firmly divided on policing, Mpls. faces budget decision

Author: Navratil, Liz; Roper, Eric

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/firmly-divided-on-policing-mpls-faces-budget/docview/2467991724/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=08952825&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=Firmly+divided+on+policing%2C+Mpls.+faces+budget+decision&amp;aulast=Navratil%2C+Liz%3BRoper%2C+Eric&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Minneapolis leaders must strike a deal this week about the future of policing in the city as they balance George Floyd's legacy with a crime wave that has put residents on edge.
The City Council is scrambling to adopt its first budget since Floyd's death after his arrest by Minneapolis police in May. Public comments have been pouring into City Hall about whether to redirect some of the Police Department's funding.
Advocates for a smaller department see it as a crucial opportunity to divert police resources into mental health services and alternative responses to nonviolent emergency calls. Others say they support funding those initiatives, but will not sacrifice police spending amid a worrisome spike in carjackings, homicides and other crimes.
The issue of policing has opened a gaping divide on the City Council, and a vote could come as early as Monday, even as some members appear
entrenched in their positions.
"I don't know if the goal should be common ground," Council Member Steve Fletcher said last week. "I think we might disagree on some things and it might be good to vote that way and just show people where we are."
In recent days, Minneapolis' elected leaders were consumed by the issue as they weighed competing public safety proposals and sat through nearly eight hours of emotional public testimony.
On Nov. 27, Fletcher, Council President Lisa Bender and Council Member Phillipe Cunningham previewed a plan to take nearly $8 million from Mayor Jacob Frey's recommended 2021 budget for the Police Department and use it to pay for mental health crisis teams, violence prevention programs and other initiatives.
Frey called the proposal "irresponsible," saying he supported the concepts, but that they should not be paid for from the Police Department's already crimped budget.
The debate comes amid a national reckoning over racism and policing sparked by Floyd's death in May. The City Council drew widespread attention when a majority of its members pledged this summer to "begin the process of ending the Minneapolis Police Department."
"It's hard for people to imagine something different beyond policing when all they know is the police state," said Miski Noor of Black Visions, a driving force behind the push to reduce the department's funding. "We do have the power to actually bring our own imaginings, our own conjurings to life, around structures that could fully keep all of us safe."
Noor worries some of the city's leaders are "feeding into the fearmongering and the outright lies and misinformation around increased violence."
More than 500 people have been shot in Minneapolis this year, according to Police Department statistics. There were more than 125 carjackings in two months.
After 23 years living in north Minneapolis, Sondra Samuels says she has never experienced crime like she has this year. It's spurred some of her neighbors to seek therapy or anti-anxiety medications, she said. Multiple shootings have directly affected people she knows.
"Policing is not going to solve all of our crime and safety issues. But we also know that without it, at the height of crime and safety issues, your citizens will remain unsafe," said Samuels, who is president of the Northside Achievement Zone. "More are going to die, more are going to be carjacked."
Samuels wants to see a "both-and" approach to the problem that funds the Police Department while providing more services like mental health and housing support. To help reform the department, she says the state must change arbitration rules so the chief can more easily terminate bad cops.
"What they're trying to do is to dismantle the police. And in so doing they are dismantling the city," Samuels said.
A Star Tribune/MPR News/KARE 11 poll of Minneapolis residents this summer found that 40% of residents supported reducing the size of the city's Police Department. But nearly two-thirds supported redirecting some department funding to social services. Since more than three-quarters of the department's budget pays for salaries, wages and fringe benefits, however, it is challenging to redirect funding without reducing the size of the force.
Competing ideas
Frey is pitching a roughly $1.5 billion spending plan for the city that includes $179 million for the Police Department. That's about $14 million less than the city initially approved for 2020, in part because the city is trying to reduce spending amid the coronavirus pandemic.
The plan written by Bender, Fletcher and Cunningham would primarily use money earmarked for officer overtime to redirect an additional nearly $8 million. The details of these new mental health teams remain fuzzy. Some are advocating the creation of a fund to run public safety pilot programs, saying they wanted to have more detailed plans in place before launching efforts like new mental health crisis teams.
A slower approach with more planning is supported by some experts in the field.
"This vague language makes it really hard to understand," said Sue Abderholden, executive director of NAMI Minnesota.
Her organization is encouraging city officials to expand mental health crisis teams that already exist, such as Hennepin County's COPE program, as opposed to creating new ones.
Meanwhile on Thursday, Frey and local business leaders announced the creation of a new, private fund to help support efforts to change public safety. Frey described it as an effort to implement some of the council members' ideas, without cutting police funding.
Bender said in a public meeting Friday that she also hopes they will make changes during the city's budgeting process, and not rely solely on outside organizations.
"I would feel pretty heartbroken if we couldn't find a way to increase our investments in gun violence prevention from city funds ... when we're investing in so many other things," she said.
So far, advocates on both sides are standing firm, and frustration abounds.
"This proposal is the bare minimum that council members should support after MPD murdered George Floyd and our city rose up, Zola Richardson, of advocacy group Reclaim the Block, said in a statement. On the other side, the anti-crime group Operation Safety Now, says this is not the time to cut police funding. Eric Won, one of the group's leaders, said a fundamental problem is that society hasn't reviewed the role of police since the 1960s.
"I don't think we have the capacity at this time to look at the problem in a more organic fashion, build it up from the beginning," Won said. "One thing we can't do is turn off the engine on this airplane, because we're flying. There are people being shot."
Liz Navratil • 612-673-4994
WHAT'S NEXT?
The Minneapolis City Council could vote on the public safety portions of the 2021 budget as early as Monday. The council is expected to pass the entire city budget by Wednesday.
CREDIT:LIZ NAVRATIL; ERIC ROPER; STAFF WRITERS

Subject: Violence; Crime; Police departments; Mental health; Councils; Public safety; Budgets; Funding; Cities

Business indexing term: Subject: Budgets

People: Floyd, George

Title: Firmly divided on policing, Mpls. faces budget decision

Publication title: Star Tribune; Minneapolis, Minn.

First page: A.1

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Dec 6, 2020

Section: NEWS

Publisher: Star Tribune Media Company LLC

Place of publication: Minneapolis, Minn.

Country of publication: United States, Minneapolis, Minn.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 08952825

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2467991724

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/firmly-divided-on-policing-mpls-faces-budget/docview/2467991724/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright Star Tribune Media Company LLC Dec 6, 2020

Last updated: 2020-12-08

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 24 of 25

MINNSPIRATIONS: PLACING HIS TRUST IN GOSPEL MUSIC

Author: Riemenschneider, Chris

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/minnspirations/docview/2467370130/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=08952825&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=MINNSPIRATIONS&amp;aulast=Riemenschneider%2C+Chris&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Just as he fought back tears to get the job done at the George Floyd memorial service in Minneapolis over the summer, gospel musician Darnell Davis has kept up a determined and dutiful attitude to get him through all of 2020.
"As gospel artists, we have to position ourselves to always offer encouragement, even if we sometimes feel discouraged ourselves," said the Twin Cities music veteran. "That's been especially important this year."
His new album with his group, Darnell Davis & the Remnant, offers a mega-church's worth of encouragement.
Titled "Psalms of Revival," the record bursts at the seams with messages of self-love, trust and community while also sewing together a patchwork of traditional gospel sounds, '70s-'80s R&B and modern hip-hop. It sounds like just what the doctor ordered as 2020 winds down and hope builds toward 2021.
Of course, Davis has been filling this healing prescription for 30 years, going back to his mid-teens when his older brother died in a police shooting and he started touring the country with the Minneapolis Gospel Sound choir.
"My mother [Shirley] recognized the gift I had been given, and she not only supported it but she pushed me," said Davis, who grew up in south Minneapolis and -- when not home-schooling to tour -- attended Roosevelt High School.
Now 45 and still co-leading services on the South Side at Greater Friendship Missionary Baptist Church, Davis started
out playing drums and then organ at Emmanuel Tabernacle behind late bishop Stanley Frazier. By 20, he had graduated to working as a producer, songwriter and singer.
Since then, he has worked with international names such as Shirley Caesar, along with a who's who of the Twin Cities gospel scene, including Ann Nesby, James Grear, Sounds of Blackness, Chico Cockrell (his godfather) and Excelsior. The latter group earned Davis a Stellar Award and a Grammy nomination in 2003.
"Excelsior lit the fire in me to start my own group," he recalled, pointing to Darnell Davis & the Remnant's 2005 debut "Psalms of Remembrance." That album title's similarity to the new title is no coincidence.
"It was almost like going back to the first blueprint," he said of "Psalms of Revival," which they started working on this time last year.
"When the songs started coming, they sounded familiar. I didn't realize at the time that they would be very relevant to the times we're in."
One of the new record's highlights, "He Is" -- featuring steeple-rattling vocals by Kennadi Hurst of the Hurst Family Experience -- offers up God as a rock-solid defense to a troubled world. And "Healing," which was written for band members dealing with illness, speaks to both the pandemic and the racial injustice that plagued 2020.
Davis was 14 when his brother, Darius -- who now shares a name with one of Darnell's two adult children -- was shot by police in Dallas at age 19 following a car chase.
When Davis saw the video of George Floyd pleading for his life this summer, he said, "I immediately thought of how painful this must be for his family."
He carried that pain with him to the June 4 memorial service with the Rev. Al Sharpton at North Central University, for which he and the Remnant served as the house band.
"The situation as a whole was an incredibly sad experience," he said, "but our role in it was to use the gifts that God has given us, and serve as a reminder to put our trust in God. To me, that was a blessing."
He tried to maintain that outlook through all the other calamities of 2020.
"If we put our trust in systems and leaders, we will usually wind up frustrated," he continued.
"If we trust in God, he will keeps us balanced so we don't get so distracted by all of the bad things around us. That really is the essential role of every gospel group, to encourage that trust."
Chris Riemenschneider • 612-673-4658
CREDIT:CHRIS RIEMENSCHNEIDER; STAFF WRITER

Subject: Memorial services; Musical performances

People: Floyd, George

Title: MINNSPIRATIONS:   Placing his trust in gospel music

Publication title: Star Tribune; Minneapolis, Minn.

First page: IN.1

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Dec 5, 2020

Section: INSPIRED

Publisher: Star Tribune Media Company LLC

Place of publication: Minneapolis, Minn.

Country of publication: United States, Minneapolis, Minn.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 08952825

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2467370130

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/minnspirations/docview/2467370130/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright Star Tribune Media Company LLC Dec 5, 2020

Last updated: 2020-12-05

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 25 of 25

Carjackings skyrocket in Mpls.: Such attacks were up 537% compared with last November, worrying residents.

Author: Sawyer, Liz

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/carjackings-skyrocket-mpls/docview/2537798238/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=08952825&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=Carjackings+skyrocket+in+Mpls.&amp;aulast=Sawyer%2C+Liz&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: A housekeeper arriving early to her shift in south Minneapolis was confronted by two hooded teenagers outside her driver's side window.
One pointed a gun at her head, demanding that she get out, before firing three shots: two ricocheted off the window and a third struck her side-view mirror.
The woman threw her car into reverse, sending the teens fleeing in the stolen car they arrived in, the latest in a series of brazen attempted armed robberies and carjackings in a wave that is stretching across the city. Minneapolis residents are grappling with a triple-digit percentage increase in these crimes, and incidents occurring at all hours, including broad daylight.
"She was completely traumatized," the woman's employer, Kathy Higgins Victor, said of the Nov. 27 incident. "It's just so bold."
Over the past two months, Minneapolis police have logged more than 125 carjackings in the city, a troubling surge that authorities had largely linked to small groups of marauding teens. But an increasing number of adults have been arrested in recent weeks for the same crime.
Within a one-hour period Saturday morning, police reported three separate carjackings in southeast Minneapolis, including one where an elderly woman was struck on the head. Such attacks are up 537% this month when compared with last November.
"The numbers are staggering," said police spokesman John Elder. "It defies all civility and any shred of common human decency."
Police say suspects tend to approach victims on the street, sidewalk or parking lot -- often while they're distracted with routine tasks. A significant number of armed stickups have targeted seniors and unaccompanied women at their vehicles on Minneapolis' South Side.
MPD didn't specifically track this type of crime until Sept. 22 because they were so infrequent. Previous cases fell under the larger umbrella of robberies and auto theft. The agency created a new coding system after the summer months yielded an unusually high number of attacks.
A retroactive count by analysts determined that Minneapolis has seen at least 375 carjackings this year -- including 17 last week. That overall tally is more than three times higher than 2019.
"These suspects have been known to ask for directions, then rob the victim of a purse, phone or car," read an MPD crime alert issued last month in the Third Precinct. It advised residents to be aware of their surroundings and carry only essentials.
A city employee fell victim to south Minneapolis carjackers in September, authorities said. Police found her abandoned vehicle only after it later crashed and caught on fire.
Should citizens find themselves targeted, law enforcement advised that sometimes it's better to hand over material goods rather than risk your own safety.
"People need to know what their abilities are," Elder said. "A 74-year-old woman trying to duke it out with two 18-year-olds is not a great idea."
The spree comes amid a nearly unprecedented spike in violent crime, particularly shootings, since the May 25 killing of George Floyd in police custody and the civil unrest that followed.
In November, the toll of people shot this year surpassed 500 in Minneapolis, the most in 15 years. Seventy-nine homicides is the highest count since the mid-1990s, an era when the city earned the grim moniker "Murderapolis."
From her kitchen window, a Tangletown resident spotted a red sedan roll up on the 300 block of W. Elmwood Place, then lurch to a stop in the middle of the street.
Two boys, thought to be juveniles, got out of the car and approached a woman sitting in her SUV. A bystander captured a dramatic image of the suspects as one raised a gun toward her head. "Get out, get out!" they yelled, according to home surveillance audio obtained by the Star Tribune.
"Despite holding up photos of her young children and pleading for her life, two young men shot her car and the driver's side window three times," Higgins Victor recounted Tuesday in an e-mail to the Minneapolis City Council. "By the grace of God, she was not physically harmed."
Shaken by the incident, neighbors have begun to mobilize on social media, encouraging one another to contact elected leaders before Wednesday night's truth-in-taxation hearing.
More than 200 people have signed up to speak on the future of policing in the city. A new proposal by a trio of City Council members -- including President Lisa Bender, Phillipe Cunningham and Steve Fletcher -- would move roughly 5% from MPD to violence prevention, a mental health crisis team and other departments that could help process reports of property damage and parking violations. The change, they said, would reduce officers' overall workloads and allow them to focus on violent crime.
On Monday, Mayor Jacob Frey held a news conference criticizing that plan as "irresponsible and untenable." Police Chief Medaria Arradondo warned that the rise in crime wasn't limited to specific areas.
"Crime is occurring, the shootings, the carjackings, the robberies. They are citywide, they are impacting everyone, and not just one constituency base and not just one neighborhood," he said.
Some neighbors wondered if the community should invest in a license plate reader to record all incoming vehicle traffic, like Plymouth did last month to help curb mail theft. But that deterrent comes with a price tag of roughly $2,000 a year to operate.
Such attacks hit "too close to home," said Rick Reuter, who was born and raised in south Minneapolis. "She was extremely lucky."
His wife, Alicia Reuter, said the shooting makes her fearful about doing basic tasks like getting gas, even during the day.
The couple say they support police reform efforts, particularly in the wake of George Floyd's killing, but don't believe fewer officers is the answer. Several like-minded neighbors said that politicization of the issue has stalled any real attempts to curb the violence.
"I am unsettled by the acceptance that carjacking and attempted murder is being normalized as a new way of life in our city," Higgins Victor wrote. "Police are gone. Criminals are emboldened. City leaders are not working toward common goals."
Liz Sawyer • 612-673-4648
CREDIT:LIZ SAWYER; STAFF WRITER

Subject: Police reform; Automobile theft; Shootings; Robbery; Murders & murder attempts; Violent crime

People: Floyd, George

Title: Carjackings skyrocket in Mpls.:   Such attacks were up 537% compared with last November, worrying residents.

Publication title: Star Tribune; Minneapolis, Minn.

First page: B.1

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Dec 2, 2020

Section: NEWS

Publisher: Star Tribune Media Company LLC

Place of publication: Minneapolis, Minn.

Country of publication: United States, Minneapolis, Minn.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 08952825

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2537798238

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/carjackings-skyrocket-mpls/docview/2537798238/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright Star Tribune Media Company LLC Dec 2, 2020

Last updated: 2021-06-07

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Contact us at: http://about.proquest.com/go/pqissupportcontact
Database copyright © 2024 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms and Conditions: https://www.proquest.com/info/termsAndConditions