

____________________________________________________________

Table of contents

1. ‘Tokenized’: Inside Black Workers’ Struggles at the King of Crypto Startups

2. How a Brooklyn Sisterhood of Black Women Became National Power Brokers

3. They Welcomed Dozens for Thanksgiving. Now What?

4. What Happened When a School District Banned Thin Blue Line Flags

5. Anguish to Transcendence: [Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk]

6. Peru’s President Steps Down After Just 6 Days, Leaving Country Adrift

7. Is It Art, or a Sign?: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

8. Layoffs at Police Watchdog Agency Prompt Claims of Retaliation

9. The Afrobeats Star Davido, an Upbeat Voice in a Turbulent Time

10. Rep. Max Rose Is Defeated as Republicans Take Back NYC Seat

11. In ‘Small Axe,’ Steve McQueen Explores Britain’s Caribbean Heritage

12. Layoffs at Police Watchdog Agency Prompt Claims of Retaliation

13. The President’s Backup Band

14. What Went Wrong With Polling? Some Early Theories

15. Buffeted by Trump, China Has Little Hope for Warmer Relations With Biden

16. ‘It’s Such a Relief’: Biden Voters Rebuild a Wall That Trump Smashed

17. As Hong Kong Law Goes After ‘Black Sheep,’ Fear Clouds Universities

18. In a Year of Protest Cries, Now It’s ‘Count Every Vote!’ and ‘Stop the Steal!’

19. In a Year of Protest Cries, Now It’s ‘Count Every Vote!’ and ‘Stop the Steal!’

20. NYPD Anti-Harassment Official Accused of Racist Rants

21. Ex-Officers in George Floyd Case to Be Tried Together, With Cameras Rolling

22. ‘Count Every Vote’: Protests Over Ballot Tallies Sweep Through U.S. Cities

23. Philadelphia Releases Body-Camera Video of Fatal Police Shooting of Black Man

24. Recreational Marijuana Legalized by New Jersey Voters

25. Despite Fears of Violence, Election Day Proceeds Smoothly as Millions Line Up to Vote

26. Hong Kong Journalist Arrested After Investigating Police Misconduct

27. Joe Biden’s 2020

28. Has Biden Taken Hispanic Voters for Granted?

29. Can Biden Regain Lost Ground With Latinos?

30. A Country Facing High Joblessness, Virus Rates and Anxiety Picks Its President

31. Graham and Harrison Battle Over the ‘New South,’ in Their Final Appeals

32. Macy’s, Saks and Small Stores Brace for Potential NYC Unrest

33. Can Raphael Warnock Go From the Pulpit to the Senate?

34. Stanford Study Seeks to Quantify Infections Stemming From Trump Rallies

____________________________________________________________

Document 1 of 34

‘Tokenized’: Inside Black Workers’ Struggles at the King of Crypto Startups

Author: Popper, Nathaniel

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tokenized-inside-black-workers-struggles-at-king/docview/2464740231/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=%E2%80%98Tokenized%E2%80%99%3A+Inside+Black+Workers%E2%80%99+Struggles+at+the+King+of+Crypto+Startups&amp;aulast=Popper%2C+Nathaniel&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
SAN FRANCISCO — One by one, they left. Some quit. Others were fired. All were Black.
The 15 people worked at Coinbase, the most valuable U.S. cryptocurrency startup, where they represented roughly three-quarters of the Black employees at the 600-person company. Before leaving in late 2018 and early 2019, at least 11 of them informed the human resources department or their managers about what they said was racist or discriminatory treatment, five people with knowledge of the situation said.
One of the employees was Alysa Butler, 25, who worked in recruiting. During her time at Coinbase, she said, she told her manager several times about how he and others excluded her from meetings and conversations, making her feel invisible. “Most people of color working in tech know that there’s a diversity problem,” said Butler, who resigned in April 2019. “But I’ve never experienced anything like Coinbase.”
In Silicon Valley, where entrepreneurs and investors often preach high-minded missions and style themselves as management gurus, Coinbase has held itself up as a model. Since the startup was founded in 2012, Brian Armstrong, the chief executive, has assembled memos and blog posts about how he built the $8 billion company’s culture with distinct hiring and training practices. That has won him acclaim among influential venture capitalists and executives.
But according to 23 current and former Coinbase employees, five of whom spoke on the record, as well as internal documents and recordings of conversations, the startup has long struggled with its management of Black employees.
One Black employee said her manager suggested in front of colleagues that she was dealing drugs and carrying a gun, trading on racist stereotypes. Another said a co-worker at a recruiting meeting broadly described Black employees as less capable. Still another said that managers spoke down to her and her Black colleagues, adding that they were passed over for promotions in favor of less experienced white employees. The accumulation of incidents, they said, led to the wave of departures.
“It was the first time I realized what racism felt like in the modern world,” said Layllen Sawyerr, a compliance analyst who is Black. “I felt like I was being bullied every day at work.” She said she filed a discrimination complaint with Coinbase’s legal department before quitting in 2018.
Kim Milosevich, a Coinbase spokeswoman, said the company “does not tolerate racial, gender or any other forms of discrimination.” She added, “All claims of discrimination are treated very seriously, investigated by both internal and third parties, and the appropriate action is taken.”
Milosevich said Coinbase had a record of only three official complaints from the 2018-19 period and none from Butler. Milosevich said the three complaints, including Sawyerr’s, were investigated and found to be unsubstantiated. Butler said she was not told how to make an official complaint; Sawyerr said she never spoke to an investigator and was not informed of the findings.
On Wednesday, before publication of this article, Emilie Choi, Coinbase’s chief operating officer, wrote an email to employees to preemptively question the article’s accuracy and said, “We know the story will recount episodes that will be difficult for employees to read.” The company posted the email to its public blog.
Tech companies have long struggled to hire and support Black employees and entrepreneurs. Just 1% of venture-backed companies were led by Black entrepreneurs from 2013 to 2018, according to a study by RateMyInvestor, which analyzes tech investors. Large tech companies like Intel, Google and Facebook have publicly said that they need to do better on diversity and have committed to improvements, although progress has been uneven.
But even in this environment, Coinbase stands out, said the current and former employees, some of whom requested anonymity because they had signed confidentiality agreements or feared retaliation. Three percent of the company’s employees are Black, which is less than half the average in most of the tech industry, as reported last year by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. Coinbase’s percentage has also stayed flat in recent years while companies such as Square, PayPal and Twitter have modestly increased their share of Black employees.
“If the numbers haven’t changed, it’s definitely because there wasn’t a real intention to do so,” Cleve Mesidor, founder of the National Policy Network of Women of Color in Blockchain, said of Coinbase. She’s worked with it to hold events in the Black engineering community. “We know now that Brian Armstrong was never committed to this.”
The tensions at Coinbase came to a head in June after the police killing of George Floyd. As many tech leaders publicly voiced support for Black Lives Matter protests, Black employees at Coinbase said on the Slack messaging platform that they were hurt by the silence of Armstrong and other executives about the matter. They organized a meeting where several of them told executives, often through tears, about their difficult experiences at the company, eight people who attended said.
The next day, Armstrong, 37, summarized the tone of what he had heard. “There was just this outpouring of, like, Why does the company not have my back?” he said at a staff meeting, according to a recording of the session shared with The New York Times. In a company email he sent later, which was also shared with The Times, he agreed to revamp the diversity-and-inclusion plan and increase mentoring.
But in September, Armstrong published a public blog post telling employees to leave concerns for issues like racial justice at the door. He said that while the company embraced diversity, the staff needed to focus on Coinbase’s mission of profit and advancing cryptocurrencies. They should resign if they disagreed, he said. “We don’t engage here when issues are unrelated to our core mission,” Armstrong wrote.
The post drew immediate blowback from employees. “Why stay and put effort into this work if it’s just tokenized into recruiting points and not actually improving the sense of belonging and psychological safety,” Lauren Lee, who was responsible for diversity and inclusion, wrote in a Slack message that was viewed by The Times.
Lee, who did not respond to requests for comment, resigned last month. So have at least 60 others.
The ‘Right Brain’
Armstrong, a former Airbnb engineer, and Fred Ehrsam, a former Goldman Sachs trader, founded Coinbase eight years ago to provide a place to buy and sell cryptocurrencies. They built the startup into a cryptocurrency leader, making money by taking fees on trades placed by its customers. (Ehrsam left day-to-day operations in 2017.)
Today, Coinbase is riding a new wave of interest in cryptocurrencies, with the value of virtual currency Bitcoin approaching a new high as investors increasingly treat it like an alternative to gold.
Much of Coinbase’s culture stems from the one around Bitcoin, current and former employees said. Bitcoin, which embodies a libertarian philosophy that snubs its nose at the pieties of mainstream institutions, has attracted a generation of fans known as “crypto bros.” Many have propagated a brash male-dominated way of life, facing criticism for sowing racism and sexism.
At Coinbase, Armstrong, who eschewed some of Bitcoin’s most renegade elements, began building what he called an “all star” culture, with mostly young white and Asian men. In one 2018 post on “36 Ways to Hire, Develop and Retain Great People,” he wrote about the importance of creating a “consistent culture” and the value of acting like an “all-star team” instead of a “family.”
“Players who don’t contribute or work as a team get cut,” he wrote.
Ruby Bhattacharya, a recruiter at Coinbase in 2017, said the search for employees for this “consistent culture” often meant looking for people who resembled the other staff members. Bhattacharya, who is gay and was born in Britain to Indian parents, said her colleagues made it clear she did not belong.
“I was told I don’t have the right brain for this,” she said. “It was constant condescension.”
As Coinbase grew, several female executives lobbied for more diversity, three former employees said. The company had brought on about a dozen Black employees by the beginning of 2018, when it had a staff of around 300.
One of those hires was Katherine Johnson, who led the compliance department. She helped recruit seven more people of color, said Sawyerr, who was among those who joined.
But Sawyerr and others said they soon felt as though they were being treated differently. On days when reporters or photographers came in, they said, they were told to be present so they could be in the photos to display the company’s diversity. But in meetings, they were talked down to and ignored. By mid-2018, some said they had started talking to human resources and their managers about the behavior.
When Coinbase announced it would be opening an office in Portland, Oregon, several Black employees in the compliance department who worked remotely were told to move there or reapply for new jobs, four former employees said. The company said it wanted the whole team in one place, but current and former employees said the one white employee in the department was allowed to continue working remotely.
Milosevich said the white employee lived in Philadelphia and was allowed to commute to and work from the company’s New York office. She said that all of the workers were offered relocation packages and that some who declined to move received severance.
All of the Black workers in the compliance division ended up among the group of 15 who left. Johnson, who was described as a supportive manager, declined to comment. She left Coinbase last year.
In mid-2018, Coinbase hired Tariq Meyers, who had worked on inclusion efforts at ride-hailing company Lyft, to lead a diversity push. Ciceli Johnson-Porter, who worked on Coinbase’s legal team, said she had approached Meyers several times to discuss the way her managers repeatedly diminished her and favored her white colleagues. She said he tried to help but was not empowered to change anything.
“He knew he was there to put a Band-Aid on a bullet wound,” she said. Meyers, who left Coinbase in June, declined to comment.
Johnson-Porter, who resigned last year, said Coinbase often turned its scrutiny on the person who complained. After she spoke up, she said, her boss started taking issue with her work. “Those of us who were vocal about the unfair treatment — they either pushed you out or created an issue that wasn’t an issue to force you out,” she said.
Milosevich said the company investigated Johnson-Porter’s claims and found “no evidence of unfairness or wrongdoing.”
Early last year, some workers brought the exodus of Black employees to the attention of Armstrong and asked him to step in, three people briefed on the situation said. He listened and said he would think about it but took no action, they said.
Armstrong rarely spoke or made decisions in meetings, the current and former employees said, leaving them uncertain about his opinions. In a staff meeting this summer, he said he knew his style made many employees uncomfortable and attributed it to being “on the spectrum,” according to a recording of the event.
Sawyerr said she had talked with four other Black employees about bringing a discrimination lawsuit against Coinbase, but the others backed out after being offered hefty severance payments in exchange for confidentiality agreements.
By the end of 2019, 31 of Coinbase’s 1,000 employees were Black. That proportion has remained unchanged.
‘Hasn’t Learned Anything’
When Armstrong wrote his blog post in September asking employees to leave their outside interests at the door, he was celebrated and praised by several tech investors.
Fred Wilson, a venture capitalist at Union Square Ventures, and one of the nine members of Coinbase’s board, said that many tech chief executives “would like to have done what Brian did” to reduce the distractions that come from employee activism. David Sacks, a PayPal founder, said Armstrong’s post was “how you build a movement and change the world.”
But internally, Armstrong’s post led to another exodus. Besides Lee, another employee who left in October was John Russ, the head of marketing and the company’s highest-ranking Black employee, who had been hired three months earlier. In a brief phone interview, Russ said only that he disagreed with Armstrong’s new position and left as a result.
On Oct. 8, Armstrong wrote in a letter to employees that 60 people had left Coinbase. He said he took solace in how many Black employees had chosen to stay.
In response, one Black employee wrote on Slack that her continued employment should not be “reassuring.” She said that she and many other Black employees were in low-ranking support positions and that it was hard to leave at a moment of high unemployment during the pandemic, according to a copy of the message seen by The Times. The post received a black heart emoji from 153 other employees.
Milosevich said Coinbase hired a consultant over the summer who did interviews, looked at the company’s history and found “no evidence of structural bias.”
“Employees reported a strong culture, fair employee treatment, high employee satisfaction and high energy for belonging, inclusion and diversity,” she said.
Managers in the customer support team, where many of the Black employees work, wrote their own report last month. It concluded that Coinbase’s executive team “hasn’t learned anything from the amount of time and labor put into listening sessions or the vulnerability expressed by Black employees,” according to a copy reviewed by The Times.
The report was presented to executives, two people with knowledge of the situation said. The executives, they said, have not acted on its recommendations.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Multiculturalism & pluralism; Startups; Employees; Executives

Business indexing term: Subject: Startups Employees Executives

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Armstrong, Brian

Identifier / keyword: Business; Finances; Economy, Business And Finance; Arts, Culture And Entertainment; Disasters, Emergencies, Accidents And Safety; Accidents And Safety; Science And Technology; Social Conditions And Trends; Crime, Law And Justice; Criminal Justice; Police; United States; San Francisco (Calif); Portland (Ore); Philadelphia (Pa); Oregon; Great Britain; Twitter; Intel Corporation; Google Inc; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Facebook Inc; Union Square Ventures; Paypal; New York Times; Lyft Inc; Equal Employment Opportunity Commission; Coinbase Inc; Airbnb; Wilson, Fred (1961 ); Sacks, David O; Popper, Nathaniel; Ehrsam, Fred; Armstrong, Brian (1983 ); Social Media; E Commerce; Currency; Photography; Blogs And Blogging (Internet); Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Start Ups; Content Type: Personal Profile; Instant Messaging; Bitcoin (Currency); Venture Capital; Labor And Jobs; Entrepreneurship; Black Lives Matter Movement; George Floyd Protests (2020); Virtual Currency; Computers And The Internet; Minorities; Workplace Environment; Appointments And Executive Changes; Race And Ethnicity; Workplace Hazards And Violations; Black People; Hiring And Promotion

Title: ‘Tokenized’: Inside Black Workers’ Struggles at the King of Crypto Startups

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 27, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-27 @ 22:41

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 24647 40231

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tokenized-inside-black-workers-struggles-at-king/docview/2464740231/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 27, 2020

Last updated: 2022-09-06

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 2 of 34

How a Brooklyn Sisterhood of Black Women Became National Power Brokers

Author: Mays, Jeffery C

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-brooklyn-sisterhood-black-women-became/docview/2464698869/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=How+a+Brooklyn+Sisterhood+of+Black+Women+Became+National+Power+Brokers&amp;aulast=Mays%2C+Jeffery+C&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — Last November, when Democratic presidential candidates were still jockeying for the nomination, before the coronavirus pandemic killed more than 250,000 Americans and fervent protests against police brutality swept the nation, Sen. Kamala Harris of California appeared before a group of mostly Black women in South Carolina to file officially for the state’s critical primary.
The event was hosted by Higher Heights for America, one of the largest political groups dedicated to helping Black women win elected office, and it was billed as a chance to have an intimate conversation with Harris in the midst of her historic run for the Democratic nomination for president.
“Black women decide elections,” Glynda C. Carr, president and co-founder of Higher Heights, said at the South Carolina forum. “We can decide we are going to elect Black women up and down the ballot.”
The moment was engineered, in no small part, by an informal collective of Black women from Brooklyn who call themselves the Olori Sisterhood.
This sisterhood was born a decade ago, made up of about a dozen women who had grown sick of being excluded from politics despite being told how important Black women were to Democratic candidates. They started out as campaign door-knockers and City Council aides, drawn to one another out of the sense that no one else would be able to support them in the hostile world of politics better than another Black woman who was also fighting for respect. A bond was forged in coffee shops and on stoops all over central Brooklyn.
Now the members of the Olori Sisterhood are partners at lobbying firms, and they run their own consultancies; they are political directors for presidential campaigns. Higher Heights was founded by two members of the group.
That Harris chose Higher Heights to host her event was a symbol of how Black women around the country have methodically used grassroots organizing and personal networks to gain undeniable political influence.
The numbers cannot be ignored. Black women had among the highest turnout rates in the 2012 presidential election and 2018 midterms, and they played a crucial role in this year’s vote. President-elect Joe Biden and Harris received 91% of the vote from Black women, according to exit polls. It has become a cliché that Black women are the backbone of the Democratic Party. Indeed, after their victory, Harris wrote on Twitter that Black women were “often overlooked” but “are asked time and again to step up and be the backbone of our democracy.”
For the women in the sisterhood (“Olori” is a Yoruba word that roughly translates as “queen”), Harris’ selection as vice president was a cause for celebration, if somewhat bittersweet. (Many would have preferred a President Harris.) They see the Democratic win as a sign not only that Black women have learned to wield power but also that it is time to demand more than a token agreement about their importance.
“It reinforces that we belong in this space,” said Kimberly Peeler-Allen, a co-founder of Higher Heights. “And don’t let anyone tell you otherwise.”
The women of the sisterhood specialize in different areas of political tradecraft: fundraising, crisis management, public relations, lobbying. Most are not interested in being candidates themselves, preferring to work behind the scenes. When one member lands a gig, she looks for ways to bring other members in. They trust one another in ways that those in the sometimes cutthroat world of politics generally don’t.
Jacqui A. Williams, a veteran Albany, New York, lobbyist, is known as a rainmaker among the group.
“People don’t share, especially in New York,” Williams said. “They cut throats here. But I want a Black woman at the table.”
At one gathering several months ago at the downtown Brooklyn apartment of Tiffany Raspberry, founder and president of York Group Associates, a lobbying firm, members of the Olori Sisterhood traded professional horror stories: consulting jobs where they knew they were being paid less than white male consultants; being told that a company run by a young Black woman in as big a market as New York was too risky to be trusted; having to fight to be more than just a token Black face on a major campaign.
Tyquana Henderson-Rivers, a political consultant and the founder of Connective Strategies, recalled telling one campaign that the Afrocentric literature it planned to send out was pandering, and that Black voters would be offended. She was overruled by a white consultant who said he knew “thousands” of Black voters. The literature went out, and just as Henderson-Rivers predicted, the campaign received complaints.
“Everybody wants the Black vote,” Henderson-Rivers said, “but they still aren’t open to listening to the people who are best at messaging the Black community.”
Over the years, the women’s personal relationships, shared disappointments, struggles and triumphs have created a camaraderie that has carried over to the professional. And with a Black woman soon to be vice president, the mood feels different from other achievements, even when a Black man was in the White House.
“This moment is not lost on us who have been fighting for a seat at the table,” said Juanita Scarlett, a partner at lobbying firm Bolton-St. Johns and a press secretary for Eliot Spitzer when he was state attorney general. “When our group started, our goal was to make sure we had more voices at the table, and now it’s happening.”
This summer, Harris chose Karine Jean-Pierre, a Haitian American woman who had been a senior adviser to Biden, as her chief of staff. Now Jean-Pierre is on the shortlist to be the first Black woman to serve as White House press secretary, as is Symone Sanders, another senior Biden adviser. On Monday, Biden picked Linda Thomas-Greenfield, who is Black, as the ambassador to the United Nations. With the position being restored to Cabinet-level status, she would serve on the National Security Council.
When Black women are in visible positions of power, it sends a strong signal, Henderson-Rivers said. While some in the sisterhood say they are hearing from the Biden administration, many are being recruited by candidates in New York City’s 2021 mayoral race. Lupé Todd-Medina is the spokesperson for Raymond J. McGuire, a former Wall Street executive and mayoral candidate who is Black; Henderson-Rivers is a senior adviser for the campaign.
During the last mayoral election cycle, the women said they received calls from second-tier candidates or only after white consultants had turned a candidate down. Henderson-Rivers’ firm began getting calls months earlier than past election cycles, she said, adding that she had recently invested in more office space.
“It’s the first time I’ve been this busy this far out, and I think it’s because the worth of Black women is finally being recognized,” she said.
A Difficult Birth
The sisterhood was formed almost by accident nearly two decades ago. It was Black Caucus weekend in Albany, the annual legislative conference of the New York State Association of Black and Puerto Rican Legislators, and a group of Black, male political operatives held a networking meeting about how to drum up more business and the outlook for the year ahead. Women were not invited.
Already feeling excluded in an industry dominated by white men, a group of women got together and held their own meeting, but the male strategists got wind and barreled in. The meeting ended abruptly, but the women had sensed a powerful connection.
After that trip to Albany, the women stayed in touch, gathering for the occasional “Black girl dinner” and commiserating on the missed opportunity to have a female president after Hillary Clinton lost the Democratic nomination to Barack Obama in 2008.
“When glass breaks, shards remain,” read an email from 2009 that was shared among the sisterhood. “Now is the time for us to work as a collective whole to fulfill the promises made to our foremothers and their mothers.”
In the end, it was a personal connection that united them.
When Hasoni Pratts was on bed rest during a difficult first pregnancy in 2009, the women of Olori would gather at her bedside in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, to keep her company. They shared food, comfort and movies, but political conversations were never far from the surface.
“We’ve gone through deaths of children, people having problems with infertility, people choosing not to have kids; we’ve gone through divorces and marriages,” said Todd-Medina, a communications consultant who served as press secretary for Sen. Cory Booker of New Jersey when he was mayor of Newark, New Jersey. “The reason you need this sisterhood and the reason Kamala means so much to us is, unlike men, women sacrifice in very hard and real ways that men do not.”
Eventually, Pratts’ mother would come in and shoo the women away. Back then they worked for members of the New York City Council and the state Legislature. They pitched in and supported one another through false starts and second-rate bosses.
Now they work on the biggest stages. Pratts was the national director of engagement for Pete Buttigieg’s presidential campaign. Peeler-Allen worked as the director of the Committee for Mike, part of Michael Bloomberg’s presidential bid. Todd-Medina is a communications consultant for the political operations of Rep. Hakeem Jeffries, a Brooklyn Democrat frequently mentioned as a future candidate for speaker of the U.S. House.
Henderson-Rivers worked on Gov. Andrew Cuomo’s most recent campaign, while L. Joy Williams, a political strategist who is president of the Brooklyn NAACP, was a senior adviser for Cynthia Nixon, the actor and activist who ran against Cuomo in the Democratic primary.
Working for Nixon carried the potential for backlash from Democratic Party officials, who were upset that an incumbent governor was facing a primary challenge. Williams talked to the women in the sisterhood before she made the decision. She wasn’t asking for their permission; Williams wanted backup.
“They made calls and said, ‘L. Joy is about to do this,’” Williams said. “Not having those relationships could have meant being blackballed for going against the party, but my girls were like, ‘We got you.’”
The recrimination that Williams feared never came. In June she served as senior adviser for Rep. Yvette Clarke of Brooklyn, who had the endorsement of the Democratic Party establishment as she beat back her own primary challenge to win by a surprisingly large margin.
Failures, and Looking Ahead
Regardless of these successes, the women of the sisterhood would be the first to acknowledge those who came before them. There’s Shirley Chisholm of Brooklyn who was elected as the first Black congresswoman in 1968. In 1999 Donna Brazile became the first Black woman to oversee a major party’s presidential campaign when she managed Al Gore’s 2000 presidential bid.
Two decades later Brazile sees both formal and informal groups of Black women like the sisterhood forming all over the country, similar to those she surrounded herself with, the self-described “Colored Girls.” In addition to organizations like Higher Heights, there’s Black Women for Biden-Harris, Power Rising and Win With Black Women, to name a few.
“We are in the room and we are at the table and we are demanding, we are not asking anymore,” Brazile said. “Black women have always been part of the progression of women in politics, but now we are accumulating the force to make change.”
Even when women of the sisterhood make breakthroughs — as Pratts did when she went to work for Buttigieg on what would be her first national political campaign — they still rely on their network.
During a campaign event in December, as Buttigieg stood in the Harlem residence of the Rev. Kelly Brown Douglas, dean of Episcopal Divinity School at Union Theological Seminary, and took questions from a group of mostly Black women, Scarlett and Todd-Medina sat in the audience.
Pratts, wearing a flowing pink pantsuit, had organized the event. She had picked out Buttigieg’s clothes, encouraging him to wear black shoes instead of his trademark brown Oxfords. She worked the room beforehand, making personal introductions with Buttigieg.
It was still a rough afternoon for the mayor of South Bend, Indiana. In spite of his gifts as a public speaker and his meteoric rise, Buttigieg had little support from Black voters.
“You can’t win without the Black women’s vote,” Brown Douglas said that day in opening remarks.
Looking shocked, Buttigieg motioned to Pratts. “Part of what I’m doing is making sure that we have empowered the right voices to share our story,” he said.
Afterward, Pratts disappeared to debrief Buttigieg privately. Two hours after the event and on her way to another primary state, she called Scarlett and Todd-Medina for a brutally frank critique.
Three months later, as Buttigieg’s decision to drop out of the Democratic primary for president began to spread one afternoon in March, Pratts was in Selma, Alabama, sitting in a parking lot outside of First Baptist Church and feeling as if she had failed.
Her cellphone began to vibrate. Affirming messages from the women of the sisterhood began to flood her inbox. Buttigieg’s campaign wouldn’t be her last presidential effort, the messages said. “Pick yourself up and let’s think about what’s next,” read another text. Pratts sat in the car and cried.
“I felt such a sense of gratitude,” she said.
Now the sisterhood wants to exert influence on the new administration and has linked up with other Black women across the country who supported the Biden-Harris ticket.
With the coronavirus disproportionately affecting Black communities, Scarlett is pushing for Black women to serve in Cabinet-level positions such as education secretary and health secretary. For her part, Carr is focused on making sure that a Black woman is chosen to replace Harris in the Senate.
“We can’t just say the vice president is a Black woman and she will do it for us,” Todd-Medina said. “We have to make sure that our voices are heard — and responded to.”
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Primaries & caucuses; Nominations; Local elections; Power; Political parties; Grass roots movement; Lobbyists; Women; Presidential elections; Candidates; Voter behavior

Location: South Carolina; New York; New Jersey

Identifier / keyword: Medicine And Health; Epidemics; Science And Technology; Computers And The Internet; Gender; Food; Education; Arts, Culture And Entertainment; Culture (Arts); Design; Elections; Social Conditions And Trends; Race And Ethnicity; Crime, Law And Justice; Criminal Justice; Local Government; United States; Southern States (Us); South Carolina; South Bend (Ind); Selma (Ala); Newark (Nj); New York State; New York City; New Jersey; Indiana; Harlem (Manhattan, Ny); Haiti; Crown Heights (Brooklyn, Ny); California; Brooklyn (Nyc); Alabama; Twitter; United Nations; Union Theological Seminary; Senate; New York State Assn Of Black And Puerto Rican Legislators; National Security Council; National Assn For The Advancement Of Colored People; House Of Representatives; Democratic Party; City Council (Nyc); Brown University; Bolton St Johns; Thomas Greenfield, Linda; Spitzer, Eliot L; Sanders, Symone D; Obama, Barack; Nixon, Richard Milhous; Nixon, Cynthia; Jeffries, Hakeem; Harris, Kamala D; Gore, Al; Cuomo, Andrew M; Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Clarke, Yvette D; Chisholm, Shirley; Buttigieg, Pete (1982 ); Brazile, Donna; Booker, Cory A; Bloomberg, Michael R; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Privacy; Deaths (Fatalities); Haitian Americans; Text Messaging; City Councils; Mayors; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Restaurants; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Police; Politics And Government; Lobbying And Lobbyists; Colleges And Universities; Whites; Presidential Election Of 2008; Presidential Elections (Us); Voting And Voters; State Legislatures; Presidential Election Of 1968; Polls And Public Opinion; Elections, Governors; United States Politics And Government; Campaign Finance; Appointments And Executive Changes; Elections, Mayors; Midterm Elections (2018); Endorsements; Primaries And Caucuses; Women And Girls; George Floyd Protests (2020); Black Lives Matter Movement; Presidential Election Of 2020

Title: How a Brooklyn Sisterhood of Black Women Became National Power Brokers

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 27, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-27 @ 15:45

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 24 64698869

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/how-brooklyn-sisterhood-black-women-became/docview/2464698869/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 27, 2020

Last updated: 2020-11-29

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 3 of 34

They Welcomed Dozens for Thanksgiving. Now What?

Author: Severson, Kim

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/they-welcomed-dozens-thanksgiving-now-what/docview/2463780368/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=They+Welcomed+Dozens+for+Thanksgiving.+Now+What%3F&amp;aulast=Severson%2C+Kim&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
GRANGER, Ind. — Dr. Jan Sanders was the first Black pediatrician to have her own practice here. Her husband, Leo McWilliams, is an assistant dean in the University of Notre Dame’s engineering department and a “quadruple Domer,” a title bestowed on the rare graduate with four degrees from the school.
But what’s truly impressive is the amount of food they cook for Thanksgiving.
One turkey comes off Leo’s grill, and another out of a smoker. He’s from Memphis, Tennessee, so there are ribs, chicken and brisket, too. Jan makes at least four styles of dressing, and simmers 35 bunches of turnip and mustard greens. She builds pans of macaroni and cheese, and bakes her mother’s brown sugar poundcake. Their sons, Cheyney, 28, and Quinlan, 25, boil pounds of sweet potatoes to make the pies.
Ever since the sons were in elementary school, the couple have hosted Thanksgiving in their cozy two-story house on a cul-de-sac in Granger, a suburb of South Bend. The guest list has included almost every lonely Black freshman enrolled at Notre Dame, a school where only about 3% of the 8,600 or so undergraduates are African American.
There are Dreamers, too, those young adult immigrants who were brought to the United States as children and did not have citizenship or legal residency status. International students show up, along with scholarship students from small towns who need to be convinced that they really do belong at an elite university.
“We try to give them a space to vent things they perhaps couldn’t vent in other spaces, and to get a friendly ear and friendly advice,” Leo said.
More than 60 people packed into the house last year to share nearly 50 dishes, each of which Jan documented in a handwritten list. But this year, the house will be mostly empty, save for the immediate family. The menu is down to 12 dishes and dessert.
Social scientists use the term collective effervescence to describe the heightened sense of belonging and well-being that comes with a shared ritual. It’s what makes going to a concert or a baseball game feel so good. The spirit of the group is bigger than what anyone could experience individually. It’s one of the building blocks of culture.
Kelly Alexander, a food studies professor at the University of North Carolina, wrote about collective effervescence in her doctoral dissertation. She and other anthropologists are taking note of what happens when a nation is deprived of in-person gathering on Thanksgiving.
“Is the one year we have to sit it out that big of a deal?” she asked. “Maybe not. But we have to acknowledge it because it will have an effect.”
For the kindred souls who have come to rely on Thanksgiving at Jan and Leo’s, the void will be particularly gaping. Most will be left to celebrate alone or in small groups, contemplating a year that delivered a series of national crises that hit them particularly hard: the killings of Black people at the hands of police officers and the resulting uproar over systemic racism; the coronavirus, which is still raging through communities of color at disproportionate rates; the bruised economy; the exhausting election and its aftermath.
“If there was ever a year when we needed to all be together, this is it,” said Richard G. Jones, the director of the Gallivan Journalism Program at Notre Dame and a former New York Times editor who usually gets extra helpings of Leo’s smoked salmon every Thanksgiving.
Shaquille Johnson, 25, could have really used a Thanksgiving meal at Jan and Leo’s, too. After graduating from Notre Dame, he landed a job as a software engineer for Google. When COVID-19 closed the company’s California campus, he and other young tech workers who could work from anywhere left the Bay Area in search of cheaper rent or a change of scenery.
He is in Austin, Texas, now, but most of his family is in Chicago. His grandmother is a health aide whose hours have been drastically cut, so he sends her money. He worries about his uncle, who lost so much business in the pandemic that he had to close his chicken-and-burger restaurant in Chicago. His aunt folded her halal food business in Wisconsin for the same reasons.
“It’s tough times, and it sucks,” Johnson said.
This Thanksgiving he’ll probably make his way to Chicago, but his heart will be at Jan and Leo’s, where he met some of his best friends and found a family who understood how it felt when white students told him he was the first Black person they’d ever met, or asked if it was all right to use the N-word.
“It was the one time you could get together and know for sure there wouldn’t be any racism there,” he said. “You could relax.”
The scene was the same every year. All the young people would crowd into the basement to play Jenga or Mario Kart before heading upstairs to share a meal with Jan and Leo’s neighbors and family friends. Once dessert was over and at least some of the dishes had been washed, everyone jumped in line to do the Cupid Shuffle or the Wobble, with Jan leading the way.
Deborah Bineza could really use a party like that this year. She graduated in 2019, and works as a program coordinator at the university’s gender relations center. She feels lucky; many of her friends have lost their jobs because of the pandemic.
She fell into Jan and Leo’s orbit when she was a freshman, and met their son Quinlan at an interfaith choir practice. She didn’t have the money to go home to Nashville, Tennessee, for Thanksgiving, and figured she would spend the holiday on campus, alone. Then Quinlan invited her to his parents’.
Bineza was a vegetarian at the time, and just like the Muslim Thanksgiving guests who don’t eat pork, she found plenty of dishes prepared with people like her in mind. Jan and Leo quickly became her champions, meeting with her and other students at a Starbucks every Sunday to talk over life and solve problems.
“They made that space where you can go be around other Black people and not have to explain what is going on or how you are feeling, and just be able to experience joy,” she said. “It’s difficult to not have that this year.”
Instead, she’ll check in with her family online — her parents had mild cases of COVID — but stay in South Bend for a dinner with her partner and her roommate.
Michael Sills, 25, and his brother, Wiett Sills, 23, who are white, found a different kind of solace at those Thanksgiving gatherings. They came to Notre Dame from San Diego but had to think twice before spending money on a plane ticket home for the holiday. They were homesick, and feeling for the first time in their lives what it meant to not be as wealthy as others.
“I never realized other people had yachts and went on skiing trips on the weekend until I went to Notre Dame,” Michael said.
They became regulars at Jan and Leo’s, bringing their grandmother’s banana pudding and leaving with pans of macaroni and cheese that Jan made especially for them.
Thanksgiving at the couple’s house would have been a nice reprieve this year, Michael said. He is in South Bend trying to start his own banking analytics business, but it’s slow going. Like many young people, he is struggling with his mental health during the pandemic.
He hasn’t seen his family since February. The brothers hope to get to San Diego if everyone can agree on COVID protocols.
“I’m just trying to breathe,” he said.
The Notre Dame gathering isn’t just for students. Jan and Leo have collected plenty of older adults along the way.
There is the retired schoolteacher from Chicago who is such a regular that she keeps a nightgown in a drawer in the guest room, and the fellow professors who offer Jewish blessings before dinner. There are the neighbors who always lent them oven space, and came over until they moved to Colorado. The mother of one son’s girlfriend came even after they broke up.
“Our gatherings are not just for food,” Jan said. “It’s for community and for closeness.”
Jan and Leo have been married for 35 years and are very clear about how and why they built this Thanksgiving tradition.
Their parents set the example, and their life experiences showed them how much a little help can mean. Their faith — they are members of Mount Carmel Missionary Baptist Church in South Bend — amplifies their desire to help people. And Leo remembers when he was a freshman and spent Thanksgiving alone on campus.
“It’s in our DNA,” he said.
This year, the house will be quiet. Except for a few athletes, the students will have left campus by Thanksgiving and won’t be back until February. The virus will keep everyone else away.
So Jan and Leo will be left with their immediate family. They’ll pick up Jan’s 88-year-old mother, who lives 10 minutes away. Cheyney, a student at Indiana University School of Medicine who had a mild case of COVID this fall, lives on his own in South Bend. Quinlan graduated from Notre Dame and is now a software engineer for Target.
He’ll drive in from Minneapolis, where the pain over George Floyd’s death in May, and the protests that followed, struck deep.
“I don’t think I realized how much it affected me until maybe September,” he said. “The last thing I needed to see, or any of us needed to see, was another Black person being killed by police. You end up asking yourself, ‘How much more can I take?’”
So they will cook. And cook. Leo will grill a turkey and smoke a side of salmon. Jan’s list of side dishes has grown. The boys will make pies. There will be poundcake.
“We can’t help ourselves,” Jan said. “We just don’t know how to cook for four.”
And they don’t know how not to feed other people. They’ve stocked the cupboard in the basement with disposable containers, and they’ve made a list of people they plan to deliver Thanksgiving dinner to.
First will be Isabel Jakab, who came to the United States in 1980 to escape the civil war in El Salvador and ended up teaching Spanish at Notre Dame for 25 years. She is 79, and started going to Jan and Leo’s for Thanksgiving after her husband died nine years ago. She hasn’t visited friends or even ventured out to shop since the pandemic hit in March. Even having workers come to the house for repairs makes her nervous.
Virginia Montero-Smith, 57, is on the list, too. She has spent 15 Thanksgivings with the family. Montero-Smith is from Venezuela and began tutoring the boys in Spanish before they were in first grade. She and the family became so close that after she divorced, she lived in their basement until she could get back on her feet.
Normally, she is in charge of carving the turkey. But not this year.
“If you have Jan and Leo as friends, you don’t need anybody else,” she said. “They are like sunshine.”
Most likely, the list of people the couple feed this Thanksgiving will grow right up until Thanksgiving morning. It’s a good bet that there will be some new names on it. “We are always collecting people,” Jan said.
Next year, if it’s safe to gather, they can show up at Jan and Leo’s, make a plate and become a kindred soul, too.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Young adults; Students; Racism; Coronaviruses; Pandemics; COVID-19

Location: Tennessee; Chicago Illinois; New York; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Lifestyle; Families And Family Life; Food; Immigration And Emigration; Politics And Government; Medicine And Health; Epidemics; Conflict, War And Peace; War And Armed Conflicts; Animals; Birds; Science And Technology; Elderly; Age, Chronological; Holidays And Special Occasions; Labor And Jobs; Social Conditions And Trends; Buildings (Structures); Education; Crime, Law And Justice; Criminal Justice; Police; Wisconsin; Virginia; Venezuela; United States; Texas; Tennessee; South Bend (Ind); San Francisco Bay Area (Calif); San Diego (Calif); Nashville (Tenn); Minneapolis (Minn); Memphis (Tenn); Indiana; El Salvador; Colorado; Chicago (Ill); Carmel (Calif); California; Austin (Ind); Starbucks Corporation; Google Inc; University Of Notre Dame; University Of North Carolina; Police Depart ment (Minneapolis, Minn); New York Times; Indiana University; Ever (Chicago, Ill, Restaurant); Severson, Kim; Jones, Richard G; Floyd, George (D 2020); Scholarships And Fellowships; Citizenship And Naturalization; Dating And Relationships; Dream Act (Development, Relief And Education For Minors Act); Organized Labor; Discrimination; Spanish Civil War (1936 39); Elder Care; Parenting; Basements And Cellars; Computers And The Internet; Youth; Children And Childhood; Restaurants; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Shutdowns (Institutional); Education (K 12); States (Us); Race And Ethnicity; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Seafood; Thanksgiving Day; Colleges And Universities; Turkeys; George Floyd Protests (2020); Black Lives Matter Movement; Cooking And Cookbooks; Black People

Title: They Welcomed Dozens for Thanksgiving. Now What?

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 24, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-24 @ 17:24

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N. Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2463780368

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/they-welcomed-dozens-thanksgiving-now-what/docview/2463780368/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 24, 2020

Last updated: 2022-09-06

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 4 of 34

What Happened When a School District Banned Thin Blue Line Flags

Author: Gold, Michael

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-happened-when-school-district-banned-thin/docview/2462678639/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=What+Happened+When+a+School+District+Banned+Thin+Blue+Line+Flags&amp;aulast=Gold%2C+Michael&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
In late October, administrators in a suburban New York school district told employees that some of their apparel was making students feel uncomfortable, and even threatened.
At issue were masks showing the so-called thin blue line flag that signals support for the police but has increasingly been used to display opposition to the Black Lives Matter movement, which rose in opposition to racism in policing.
Wearing the symbol violated a district policy prohibiting employees from expressing political speech, officials said. The logo, a black-and-white version of the American flag with a single blue stripe at its center, could no longer be worn by staff members.
Days later, a group of employees of the district, in Pelham, New York, appeared at work wearing shirts bearing the word “Vote” and the names of Black people who had been killed by the police, prompting accusations of hypocrisy and political bias.
The resulting controversy has divided Pelham, an affluent and mostly white Westchester County town of about 12,000 people just north of New York City.
The tense debate exemplifies the political tinderbox that much of the United States has become, where an emblem on a mask or a patch on a sleeve can ignite a dispute that consumes a community.
At the center of the conflict is a symbol that has come to mean vastly different things to different people, a black, white and blue Rorschach test whose significance continues to shift amid a continuing national reckoning over racism and police violence.
“It made a lot of people upset here, obviously,” said Ralph DeMasi, a school safety coordinator who was told not to wear the flag. “Clearly a directive was given. One side followed it, while another side was allowed to express their views.”
Facebook discussions have grown heated. Neighbors staked out clear positions and lined up in the cold to speak at a public meeting. School employees and parents said they had gotten threatening messages as the district attracted national media attention.
“People are taking this hard line,” said Solange Hansen, a Black and Latina woman who moved to Pelham last year and whose teenage son is a student there. “All of a sudden, overnight, you see these blue line flags on people’s lawns. You see them in people’s businesses. And that makes it really hard for the people of color.”
On Friday evening, The Pelham Examiner, a local news outlet, published a letter written by a Pelham high school senior, Nadine LeeSang, that expressed support for the district’s policy and said that the flag reminded students of color of “racist experiences they have had” with law enforcement.
“Nobody was really talking about how students felt uncomfortable, and it was kind of being dismissed,” LeeSang, 17, who is Black and Asian, said in an interview. Her letter was signed by 15 other people, most of them also students.
The debate over the flag’s meaning has played out across the country, particularly after widespread protests this summer over police brutality and systemic racism.
An Ohio school district banned it after a football player displayed it before a game; a school in another Ohio district suspended students for carrying it onto the field. There were opposing rallies in a Massachusetts town where officials ordered the flag removed from fire trucks.
Those who support the flag say it has long been used to honor law enforcement officers who sacrificed their lives, and that it is not meant as a political statement.
“It signifies a memorial, a connection between officers killed in the line of duty and those who continue with their duties in the present,” said Carla Caccavale, a Pelham resident who has four children enrolled in district schools and whose father, a New York City Transit detective, was killed while trying to stop a robbery when Caccavale was an infant.
Caccavale has made sweatshirts honoring her father’s memory that include a thin blue line patch. Although she initially made them only for her family and another family, she has begun to sell them to support police-related charities.
When school staff members were told they could no longer wear the flag, her sweatshirts were included in the ban. She said the decision baffled her.
“You have to look at the intention of the sweatshirts,” she said.
But supporters of the district’s ban on the flag said the logo could not be divorced from its current context as a symbol for the pro-police Blue Lives Matter movement that sprang up in response to the Black Lives Matter movement.
The flag’s critics also say the image has acquired a racist connotation after being carried at demonstrations by hate groups, most notably a Charlottesville, Virginia, rally in 2017, where white nationalists staged a weekend of protests that turned violent.
“Now that you see this flag flown alongside this other flags and racist symbols, it’s very hard not to say, ‘Well, that’s a racist symbol,’” Annemarie Garcia, who has two teenagers enrolled in Pelham schools, said. “Even if that’s not what it meant to you originally.”
In recent months, the flag has become a more common sight at pro-police demonstrations around New York and elsewhere. It hung prominently behind President Donald Trump at a campaign rally in Wisconsin, and the campaign has sold merchandise bearing the symbol.
DeMasi, the Pelham school employee who was told not to wear the flag, said that he did not connect it to white supremacists. But he acknowledged that it had become a political symbol.
“Obviously, you’ve seen caravans with the Trump flag in the back of pickup trucks and then the thin blue line,” DeMasi, a former police officer, said. “I think maybe people had a good intention, but it ended up giving the meaning of the thin blue line a black eye.”
But the ban on Caccavale’s sweatshirts provoked a ferocious letter from the president of the Detectives’ Endowment Association, a New York City police union, who accused Cheryl Champ, the district’s superintendent, of “perverting views” of students and turning them into “cop-haters.”
The letter touched off an onslaught of coverage by local and national media outlets, including Fox News, where Caccavale has appeared twice.
Much of the coverage has focused on Caccavale and the school board’s policy, to the frustration of some who said they feared that the concerns of nonwhite students were being ignored.
The school district would not provide details about the students who were involved, including the number of complaints or the ages of those who had filed them.
Garcia, who volunteers for the district, said she had heard multiple students explain their views about the flag to staff members but she declined to provide details, citing privacy concerns.
“You have adolescents who actually stood up and expressed their concern,” Garcia, who identifies as white and Hispanic, said. “And these are not adolescents who look like the majority of the kids in Pelham.”
At a school board meeting on Wednesday, Champ said that when she began to hear complaints about the flag, she researched it and concluded that it should not be worn. When she received complaints about the shirts that said “Vote,” she did the same, she said.
“I apologize for not enforcing this policy evenly at its outset, which I recognize created an appearance of being one-sided,” she said.
Several people who spoke at the meeting in support of Caccavale urged administrators to bring the police into classrooms and foster a discussion about the symbol.
Hansen rejected that suggestion, saying it ignored the feelings of children like hers, who would be threatened to see officers in schools.
“Why force that on our kids?” she asked. “If even one kid said ‘I am afraid of that symbol,’ isn’t that enough?”
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Students; Racism; School employees; School districts

Location: New York City New York; New York; Ohio; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Crime And Criminals; Assaults; Education; Arts, Culture And Entertainment; Politics And Government; United States Politics And Government; Presidential Elections (Us); Disasters, Emergencies, Accidents And Safety; Accidents And Safety; Media; Labor And Jobs; Social Conditions And Trends; Economy, Business And Finance; Transit Systems; Crime, Law And Justice; Criminal Justice; Police; Wisconsin; Virginia; United States; Pelham (Ny); Ohio; New York City; Massachusetts; Charlottesville (Va); Facebook Inc; Police Department (Nyc); Detectives Endowment Assn; Trump, Donald J; Hispanic Americans; News And News Media; Presidential Election Of 2020; Charlottesville, Va, Violence (August, 2017); Railroad Accidents And Safety; Subways; Organized Labor; Fashion And Apparel; Discrimination; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Whites; Letters; Workplace Hazards And Violations; Attacks On Police; Education (K 12); Race And Ethnicity; George Floyd Protests (2020); Black Lives Matter Movement; Flags, Emblems And Insignia; Black People

Title: What Happened When a School District Banned Thin Blue Line Flags

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 21, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-21 @ 15:28

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2462678639

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-happened-when-school-district-banned-thin/docview/2462678639/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 21, 2020

Last updated: 2022-09-06

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 5 of 34

Anguish to Transcendence: [Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk]

Author: Mitter, Siddhartha

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/anguish-transcendence/docview/2462309050/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=Anguish+to+Transcendence&amp;aulast=Mitter%2C+Siddhartha&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: In a bare room upstairs from his art studio inside an industrial building in the South Bronx, Derek Fordjour watched as three puppeteers brought a character drawn right out of his paintings to three-dimensional life. The artist was forging yet another branch of his multiform practice: a live show, inspired by Japanese puppet theater, to complement work in his upcoming gallery exhibition.
Mr. Fordjour often depicts Black athletes and performers -- dancers, riders, rowers, drum-majors -- as strivers who navigate the ambiguities that come with their achievement, and the racial scrutiny that accompanies visibility in the mainstream culture.
The wood puppet was a vessel for these concerns. He had an athletic look, in breeches and a tunic. The top was a striped number in pink, blue, and brown, typical of the busy colors and patterns that energize Mr. Fordjour's paintings. The character careened between triumph and slapstick abjection as the puppeteers moved him across a long table with artificial turf.
The puppet bent to pick up a ball; it stuck to his hand. As he tried to shake it off, a laugh track played -- a crowd guffawing at his distress. Later he soared for a dunk, Jordan-style. He was mocked and applauded -- the story suggested that what elevates Black achievers in our society can also erode their psyches.
"I love learning other ways to have a conversation," Mr. Fordjour said after the rehearsal, a collaboration with the puppet artist Nick Lehane. "Painting has its utility, but performance is another register."
At 46, by art-world metrics, Mr. Fordjour is already registering. He was a market sensation in 2019 with a noteworthy sale at Phillips, where "Agency and Regulation (study)" went for $ 137,500, double its estimate. At the Frieze art fair he sold a suite of 10 paintings to Jay-Z and Beyoncé.
This year brought his first full-fledged museum show, at the Contemporary Art Museum St. Louis, where paintings hung in a tropical environment that included corrugated metal walls and an ingenious method to replicate the sound of rain. "The idea was about creating a multisensory experience," Wassan al-Khudhairi, the show's curator, said of the immersive staging. She added, "He's an extremely ambitious person; risk-taking is part of the journey."
Mr. Fordjour's solo show, "Self Must Die," at Petzel Gallery is typically elaborate, with a walk-in installation, two new painting suites, a series of sculptures and the puppet show, performed twice daily.
His rise has been remarkable considering that his breakout show, in an artist-run space in Bushwick, was in 2014. Two years later, he was still completing his M.F.A. at Hunter College.
The sculptor Nari Ward, his teacher and adviser at Hunter, recalled that Mr. Fordjour, who was older than most other students -- was driven with big ideas. "He came in hungry," Mr. Ward said. "I was like, ooh, what's going to happen to this guy?"
Woven into Mr. Fordjour's work are lessons from his tortuous journey since committing to art back in high school, the son of Ghanaian immigrants in Memphis, Tenn.
But it was the events of 2020, between the pandemic and the police killings of George Floyd and Breonna Taylor, that took his newest work on a bleaker path, one that digs deeper into the ceremony of Black grief and mourning. The focus of his art is shifting from the complexities of performative roles to include how we mark the lives that had been lost.
A new ensemble painting, "Chorus of Maternal Grief," commemorates 14 women, from Mamie Till-Mobley, Emmett Till's mother, to Tamika Palmer, Ms. Taylor's mother, whom bereavement forced into public roles. It is a new move for him: specific portraits rather than archetypes.
"This year, I feel like memorial is important," he said. "Black funerary tradition is on my mind," he added. "Thinking about all the people who were not able to have funerals."
The Petzel show arrives with an epigraph from "In the Wake: On Blackness and Being," a 2016 book by the scholar Christina Sharpe, who refers to "wake work" -- the ensemble of activities, grand and mundane, that acknowledge and address Black death, and in doing so, affirm Black life.
She writes: "What does it look like, entail and mean to attend to, care for, comfort, and defend, those already dead, those dying, and those living lives consigned to the possibility of always-imminent death, life lived in the presence of death ... it means work."
Mr. Fordjour was taken by that concept, he said, and he has also been reading Black liberation theory, by the theologian James H. Cone, and studies of Black mourning.
The artist recalled years ago criticisms of the funeral industry for inflating its prices. "And Black funeral directors really rebuffed it," he said. "They said, this is the opportunity to celebrate. This is our chance to be ornate."
One work in the show, "Pall Bearers," is inspired by the lavish funeral given George Floyd in Houston. Struck by Mr. Floyd's gold-finished casket, Mr. Fordjour researched recipients of similar gold coffins and found that they included Michael Jackson and Whitney Houston.
The painting presents men in top hats, in a flattened perspective that conveys rhythm and immediacy. "But the casket is probably the subject of the painting," he said. "A man commemorated in a gold casket, contrasting so sharply with the way his life ended."
Mr. Fordjour plays with the ornate; he is not afraid to dazzle.
"He's a superb colorist," said Manon Slome, the curator who developed with Mr. Fordjour a wild, funhouselike installation for kids (but not just) at the Sugar Hill Children's Museum of Art & Storytelling. "There's a theatricality in the work; they're showmen," she added. "The light radiates from within."
When depicting crowds, as in "Parade," Mr. Fordjour's 2018 mosaic series inside the 145th Street subway station of the No. 3 line, the artist shows the inspiration of Jacob Lawrence and Archibald Motley, though his palette is lighter, more variegated.
The process of painting is at once humble and intricate: He covers a canvas or wood board with cardboard tiles, foil and other materials, and wraps it in newspaper (always The Financial Times, for its warm, salmon hue). The process repeats several times, with Mr. Fordjour applying washes of paint, then tearing and carving the accumulating surface as he goes.
These days, Mr. Fordjour has assistants handle the preliminaries, which involves seven or eight layers. "This is where I start cooking." He applies hundreds of small pieces of hand-cut paper, and sketches in charcoal. Then he moves to acrylic and oil pastel.
"He found a technique," said Mr. Ward, who remains his friend and sounding board. "It's a kind of seduction of the hand, but once you're in it, you realize you've been brought to another space -- of inquiry and realization of a kind of historical angst."
Mr. Fordjour's first round in art school in New York, back some 20 years earlier, wasn't such a success. Set on his path by Bill Hicks, a local-legend art teacher at Central High School in Memphis, he enrolled at Pratt Institute, but now says, "I went way off track."
He dropped out and hung out -- at the Met, at the Art Students League, and had a brush with the justice system in Brooklyn. "The truth is that I ran into some trouble. I got arrested," he said. The charge involved drugs but the case was dismissed. The incident left him shaken and reminded him of his middle class privilege.
"The thing that saved me was that my dad was an oral surgeon, and I had a cousin at Harvard Law School. But I saw what happens when someone like me gets into that system." Long ashamed, he revealed the story when he participated in Project Reset, where artists mentor young people facing misdemeanor convictions.
Mr. Fordjour returned to Memphis and enrolled in community college, then had a baby with a girlfriend (his son is now a college student). "Living some life kind of got me on track," he said. He began teaching art in day care centers. He then finished college at Morehouse University, continuing to Harvard, where he earned a master's in art education.
A different path was germinating, that of the artist. At Morehouse, Akua McDaniel's course in African-American art history awakened him to a lineage from slavery to the Harlem Renaissance to the scholarship of David Driskell and Richard J. Powell. "It opened me up to a whole world of possibility," he said.
And a series of portrait commissions for bankers and others in Memphis's Black professional circles showed that there could be money in painting. By the time Mr. Fordjour reappeared in New York and got married, settling into suburban life in Mount Vernon, he was steadily producing portraits and landscapes in his basement.
He hated it. "It was a lot of bad work, failed experiments," he said. Things he cared about did not show up in his work. When his marriage fell apart, he found himself sleeping on an air mattress in a storage building.
But he found it liberating to work with charcoal on newspaper -- the only surface he could afford for a time. And he was making friends on the art scene like Hank Willis Thomas. Mickalene Thomas let him help in the studio; her work with fractured surfaces, bright color, and neon, he said, unlocked his own imagination.
By the time Mr. Fordjour enrolled at Hunter, his friends were alerting collectors. The construction executive Joseph Mizzi offered him an exhibition in his office in 2013. He accepted, recalling advice from Mark Bradford: "Show anywhere." The painter Henry Taylor turned up and bought a sculpture.
"It just started happening, man," Mr. Fordjour said. "I haven't even put it together for myself."
In the studio last month, collaboration was in the air. Art by friends hung in the conference room. On Zoom, Mr. Fordjour checked in with Hollywood designers, one a friend from high school, who were crafting his new installation. The puppet artists worked upstairs.
Mr. Fordjour contemplated how this year had elevated the stakes.
Last March, he was sued by a former gallerist, Robert Blumenthal, who claimed that Mr. Fordjour reneged on a deal they agreed to in 2014, to deliver 20 canvases. Mr. Fordjour's lawyers call the pending case "meritless," and have filed for its dismissal.
It was not lost on him that as his prominence grows, his own position resembles more and more the archetypal performers he has painted balancing between anguish and transcendence.
"To some degree maybe these are self-portraits," he said, showing a painting of an argyle-clad man on a unicycle, holding balls in both hands, with another ball on his neck.
"I'm benefiting from a moment," he said. "I hope that my work is good. I recognize that I'm an artist in society, and when society goes and moves in another direction I've still got to be rooted in what I'm doing."
To keep steady, he said, meant living on shifting boundaries: between exposure and vulnerability, close-knit community and the broader social sphere. It was a challenge for his art, and for his life.
Self Must Die
Through Dec. 19 at Petzel Gallery, 456 West 18th Street, Manhattan; 212- 680-9467, petzel.com. A puppet show, "Fly Away," is performed twice daily.
Self Must Die Through Dec. 19 at Petzel Gallery, 456 West 18th Street, Manhattan; 212- 680-9467, petzel.com. A puppet show, "Fly Away," is performed twice daily.
Photograph Left, Derek Fordjour outside his art studio in the Bronx, where he was preparing for a solo show at Petzel Gallery. Above, puppeteers bringing a character from one of his paintings to life for a performance at Petzel. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAFAEL RIOS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C1); Clockwise from above, works by Derek Fordjour, all from 2020: "STRWMN"; detail from "Chorus of Maternal Grief"; and "Straight Four Swing." Right, his 2016 painting "Agency and Regulation (study)" went for double its estimate at auction in 2019. Below right, Mr. Fordjour with his studio team and collaborators, including the puppet artist Nick Lehane. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DEREK FORDJOUR AND PETZEL; DEREK FORDJOUR; VIA PHILLIPS; RAFAEL RIOS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C7-C8)

Subject: Art galleries & museums; Grief; Art education; Funeral industry; Community colleges; Painting

Business indexing term: Subject: Funeral industry

Location: New York

People: Floyd, George

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2020/11/19/arts/design/derek-fordjour-self-must-die.html

Title: Anguish to Transcendence:   [Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.1

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 20, 2020

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2462309050

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/anguish-transcendence/docview/2462309050/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 20, 2020

Last updated: 2020-11-20

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 6 of 34

Peru’s President Steps Down After Just 6 Days, Leaving Country Adrift

Author: Kurmanaev, Anatoly; Mitra Taj

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/peru-s-president-steps-down-after-just-6-days/docview/2460774162/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=Peru%E2%80%99s+President+Steps+Down+After+Just+6+Days%2C+Leaving+Country+Adrift&amp;aulast=Kurmanaev%2C+Anatoly%3BMitra+Taj&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Facing widespread opposition, Peru’s interim president stepped down on Sunday, his sixth day on the job, plunging a country already facing an economic tailspin and a devastating pandemic into a constitutional crisis.
The interim president, Manuel Merino, had taken power on Tuesday after legislators shocked the nation by voting to remove the popular incumbent, Martín Vizcarra, and then swearing in Merino, who was the head of Congress.
By giving up the presidency, Merino opened up a power vacuum and left Peruvians bracing for the prospect of living under a fifth president in five years, certain only that there is more turbulence to come.
Late Sunday evening, an attempt by Congress to push through a replacement for Merino failed after lawmakers balked at the Marxist credentials of the proposed candidate. That left the country effectively rudderless.
“The resignation of Merino is just the beginning of the end of the political crisis,” said Denisse Rodríguez-Olivari, a Peruvian political scientist at Humboldt University of Berlin. “There are still profound problems in the way the country is governed.”
From his first moments in office, Merino faced opposition from Peruvians who took to the streets in protest and from prominent political and social leaders, many of whom said they did not recognize him as the country’s leader.
On Sunday, after most of his Cabinet resigned and his last political allies abandoned him, the Congress that had put him in power called on him to step down, and Merino took heed.
“I present my irrevocable resignation,” he said in a video address to the nation. “I call for peace and unity of all Peruvians.”
The task of resolving Peru’s problem has fallen to its deeply unpopular and inexperienced Congress.
Elected in January, the lawmakers have proved more interested in pushing through their narrow business interests than governing a nation in crisis, analysts said. About half are under investigation for corruption and other crimes, and many in the country have blamed their political opportunism for the current turmoil.
Merino said he would now focus on ensuring a smooth transition to a new leader.
It was unclear, however, if Peruvians would accept Congress’ pick as their leader and end the daily protests rocking the nation. Whoever takes power now, Rodríguez-Olivari said, will need to pay close attention to the people’s demands to win legitimacy and be able to govern.
Vizcarra, the former president, added to the transition uncertainty Sunday evening by claiming the Congress was too discredited to select Merino’s replacement. He urged the nation’s top court to weigh in on the legality of his removal — a move that he could potentially use to stage a political comeback.
“It can’t be that the Congress that got us into this crisis gives us the solution,” Vizcarra told reporters on Sunday.
Protesters have also demanded that, if Congress is to pick the next president, they must choose from the small group of lawmakers who voted against Vizcarra’s impeachment, and that the nominee have a clean reputation, with no pending investigations or charges.
“The citizens feel like they have triumphed,” said Alexandra Ames, a political analyst in Lima. “But they know that the resignation is not enough, and they are awaiting Congress’ decisions to decide on further protests.”
Vizcarra, the president replaced by Merino, had earned the support of a majority of Peruvians during his two years in power by working to clean up Peru’s notoriously venal political establishment.
To remove him, lawmakers cited unproven accusations of corruption and used an archaic constitutional clause that allows the Congress to declare the president morally incapable to lead the nation. Vizcarra had been due to step down after a presidential election in April, and had promised to face justice after leaving office.
Merino promised to unite the nation and respect democracy, but his administration unraveled before it got started.
His presidency was met with the biggest street demonstrations in the two decades since the downfall of authoritarian President Alberto Fujimori, who is now in jail for human rights abuses and corruption.
The marches in cities and towns across Peru — in the capital, Lima, as well as in the Amazon, the Andes and on the Pacific coast — were driven largely by young people who saw Congress’ action as a ruthless power grab by lawmakers.
“They don’t realize that we’re capable of continuing, week after week, until this is over,” said Alejandra Cavero, a 19-year-old university student who said it was her first time protesting.
The police’s hardfisted response to the protesters — including the heavy use of tear gas and of rubber bullets at close range — only deepened discontent with the new president.
An umbrella group for human rights organizations in Peru said Saturday morning that 41 people had gone missing during the protests and that 112 had been wounded.
Then two protesters were killed during a police crackdown Saturday night, and calls for Merino to resign spread to some of his government’s staunchest supporters. By Sunday morning, most members of his Cabinet had tendered their resignations.
Marches continued in Lima on Sunday, images on local media showed, even after Merino announced his resignation.
“We have a single feeling that’s been multiplied. Why? The greed and hunger of those in power who should be defending our rights,” said Rubén León, a 38-year-old cook. “I’m not a fan of Vizcarra, but his impeachment is an embarrassment and it’s causing a lot of instability.”
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Politics; Legislators; Corruption; Pandemics; Resignations; Presidents; Criminal investigations; Demonstrations & protests; Human rights

Business indexing term: Subject: Resignations

Location: New York; Peru; United States--US

People: Merino, Manuel

Company / organization: Name: Congress; NAICS: 921120

Identifier / keyword: World; George Floyd Protests (2020); Constitution (Us); United States Politics And Government; Police; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Assaults; Law And Legislation; Constitutions; Conflict, War And Peace; Criminal Justice; Crime And Criminals; Horizontal Terms; Crime, Law And Justice; Peru; Lima (Peru); Andes Mountains; Senate; Humboldt University; House Of Representatives; Fujimori, Alberto K; Labor And Jobs; Impeachment; Human Rights And Human Rights Violations; Attacks On Police; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Appointments And Executive Changes; Corruption (Institutional)

Title: Peru’s President Steps Down After Just 6 Days, Leaving Country Adrift

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 16, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-16 @ 11:06

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2460774162

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/peru-s-president-steps-down-after-just-6-days/docview/2460774162/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 16, 2020

Last updated: 2022-09-06

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 7 of 34

Is It Art, or a Sign?: [The Arts/Cultural Desk]

Author: Loos, Ted

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/is-art-sign/docview/2460220560/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=Is+It+Art%2C+or+a+Sign%3F&amp;aulast=Loos%2C+Ted&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: The village of Kinderhook, N.Y., is not thrilled with the mark this artist made on a gallery, so the municipal government is demanding that it come down.
A battle is underway in the normally quiet Hudson Valley village of Kinderhook, N.Y., over three words: Truth be told.
The black vinyl letters in the artwork "Truth Be Told" measure 21 feet high and stretch some 160 feet across the facade of the 1929 red brick building that now serves as the School, a branch of Manhattan's Jack Shainman Gallery.
For the space, the artist Nick Cave created "Truth Be Told," intending to inspire a conversation about racial justice and policing in the wake of the killing of George Floyd, the Black man who died in May in police custody after Minneapolis officers pinned him to the ground for more than eight minutes, one of them with a knee on Mr. Floyd's neck.
Mr. Cave got a conversation, but not exactly the one he wanted.
Instead, the debate around "Truth Be Told" has been about whether the text-based work is technically a sign or not, a seemingly minor distinction that has significant implications.
The Village of Kinderhook says it's a sign, and hence in violation of local code, and wants it removed.
The dealer Jack Shainman and his attorney, William J. Better, say that it's an artwork and is perfectly legal under the special use permit that the School was given in 2014, when it opened.
They have until Dec. 5 to appeal the decision, which they intend to do, unless, as Mr. Better said, "the village comes to its senses."
Kinderhook's mayor, Dale R. Leiser, doesn't sound like he is changing his mind.
"The village's position is that we're going by our code, and New York State code," Mr. Leiser said, adding that Mr. Shainman "didn't have a permit. He got a use permit for banners, and this is totally different."
A secondary concern was the vinyl material the letters were made of and "whether it's flammable or not," the mayor said. "We are concerned it's covering windows and doors."
The Building Department issued an order on Oct. 23 demanding the removal of the work and calling it "combustible."
Mr. Shainman had submitted a proposal to the village on Aug. 13 for "Truth Be Told." Permission wasn't granted, and the two sides had a special Zoom meeting on Oct. 20.
"I naïvely thought I could just explain it and they'd agree," said Mr. Shainman, who is liable for a $ 200 fine for each day the work remains in place after the order to remove it was issued. "They were saying it's a sign, and it isn't."
The matter wasn't resolved, but Mr. Shainman authorized the crew to put up "Truth Be Told" the next day anyway, and it was completed on Oct. 31.
"We're good people, doing something we're allowed to do," Mr. Shainman said, adding that he felt he needed to support his artist, Mr. Cave.
"We've spent three and a half weeks mired in this," Mr. Shainman added. "I feel like I'm stuck in a glue trap."
Mr. Better's reading of local code, he said, is that signs are defined as "an announcement, direction or advertisement, and this is none of those."
The issue of the work's flammability is "the ultimate red herring," Mr. Better added, given that the vinyl material is "a 3M product that is regularly used on buildings across New York State."
In his back-and-forth with the village, Mr. Better said he gave the example of "plastic Halloween decorations, infinitely more flammable, which are all over town."
"If someone puts up 'Seasons Greetings' on their door for Christmas, would the village tell them to take it down? I think not."
Mr. Better added, "Like any art, it makes people think."
Thomas Danziger, a New York attorney who specializes in art law, said that the dispute was an example of a "huge problem": the fact that "zoning regulations were not intended to address what is or is not a work of art."
Mr. Danziger noted that "there are plenty of artists whose work is just words, like Lawrence Weiner and Barbara Kruger."
For his part, Mr. Cave said that the village's pushback on his work was "another indication of where people stand."
He added that the piece is "about admitting the truth that one might otherwise lie about."
Mr. Cave, who is based in Chicago, has spent his career addressing race and identity in his work, as with his famous "Soundsuits," which are wearable, noisemaking costumes.
In 2016, he created "Until," a massive installation at the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art in North Adams, composed of thousands of objects addressing gun violence and the deaths of Black people in police custody.
Mr. Cave said that he feels "totally supported" by Mr. Shainman and that he would have been "really upset" if the work hadn't gone up as planned.
"It's an artwork," he added. "It's freedom of expression. It's not complicated."
Mr. Shainman said that he intends to keep "Truth Be Told" on view through Jan. 31.
The mayor, Mr. Leiser, said that the village did not have an issue with the School's programming in general.
"Not at all," he said. "Jack is a good man."
But Mr. Leiser added, "There's always protocol."
Photograph Above, "Truth Be Told," on the facade of the School gallery in Kinderhook, N.Y. Its artist, Nick Cave, left, wanted to inspire conversation about racial justice and policing in the wake of the killing of George Floyd. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICK CAVE AND JACK SHAINMAN GALLERY; KRISTA SCHLUETER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Subject: Art galleries & museums; Artists

Location: New York

People: Cave, Nick; Floyd, George

URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2020/11/10/arts/design/nick-caves-truth-writ-large.html

Title: Is It Art, or a Sign?:   [The Arts/Cultural Desk ]

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Pages: C.3

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 14, 2020

Section: C

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: Gener al Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2460220560

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/is-art-sign/docview/2460220560/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 14, 2020

Last updated: 2020-11-14

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 8 of 34

Layoffs at Police Watchdog Agency Prompt Claims of Retaliation

Author: Southall, Ashley

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/layoffs-at-police-watchdog-agency-prompt-claims/docview/2460171821/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=Layoffs+at+Police+Watchdog+Agency+Prompt+Claims+of+Retaliation&amp;aulast=Southall%2C+Ashley&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — Four senior officials at the New York City agency that examines allegations of police misconduct were laid off abruptly last Thursday in what officials described as a restructuring meant to expand its investigative muscle.
But some employees of the agency, the Civilian Complaint Review Board, said the layoffs were retaliation for the officials’ roles in criticizing how the board responds when the Police Department refuses to cooperate with its investigations.
The layoffs came after several high-profile police killings of Black people, including George Floyd in Minneapolis, touched off huge protests against police brutality across the United States and led to a surge of complaints against officers in New York and other cites.
The protests focused new attention on the review board and its work as momentum built in the City Council and state Legislature to revamp New York’s criminal justice system and address systemic racism.
The Rev. Fred Davie, the board’s chair, said in a statement Thursday that the four senior positions were being eliminated to free up around $600,000 that would be used to hire 20 additional investigators over the next year. That was the sole reason for the layoffs, said Davie, who denied that the cuts were retaliatory.
“This was the result of the need to address redundancies at the managerial level and reallocate resources during a difficult time for our city,” he said in the statement.
Davie noted in his statement that the board had spoken out repeatedly about its lack of direct access to police body camera video when investigating complaints against officers.
He previously split with Mayor Bill de Blasio by publicly supporting the repeal of a law used to keep police misconduct records secret. After state lawmakers repealed the law, known as 50-a, the review board released a database of civilian complaints going back decades.
Bill Neidhardt, a spokesperson for de Blasio, said that the layoffs Thursday would help the review board speed up its investigations at a time when the city has been forced to freeze most new spending. He said the mayor “supports that step forward.”
But current and former review board employees said that the four people who had been laid off — two chiefs of investigations, one deputy chief of investigations, and the director of policy and advocacy — had all pushed for the agency to take a more aggressive stance toward the Police Department.
“These are the people who fought back against police stonewalling against the agency, and it seems like the agency is capitulating to the NYPD,” Andrew Case, a former board spokesperson, said.
The officials — J. Christopher Duerr, Winsome Thelwell, Dane Buchanan and Nicole Napolitano — were let go after being summoned to meetings with human resources officials early Thursday, according to an agency employee with knowledge of the matter who spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of retaliation.
None of the four returned messages seeking comment Thursday.
Buchanan helped write a memo obtained by ProPublica that outlined how the Police Department withheld crucial evidence, including body camera video, from the review board and steps the agency could take — but did not — to fight back. Thelwell, who had been with the board for about 25 years, was one of the agency’s longest-serving employees. Napolitano had written several memos to agency executives detailing areas where it could improve.
The senior board employee who spoke on the condition of anonymity criticized the agency for laying off officials who collectively acted as an internal watchdog.
The employee also took issue with the timing of the cuts. The recent protests in the city, coupled with reports that spotlighted abuses in how police responded to the demonstrations, underscored the board’s importance, said the employee, who also noted that voters in several cities had approved the creation or expansion of police oversight agencies.
“It should be a huge embarrassment and shame to the city when they hear about this,” the senior employee said.
The review board currently has 122 investigators and a budget of less than $20 million, according to a spokesperson and the mayor’s management report.
Police have had less contact with civilians than usual this year because of the pandemic, according to officials, and the review board has received fewer complaints so far this year than it did in 2019. Nearly half of the 3,332 complaints filed this year were made during and after the protests, according to a monthly agency report.
The average time it takes investigators to complete an investigation has risen from about eight months in 2019 to more than nine months this year, which the review board has attributed to the growing role of video in examining complaints. Investigators must often find and watch hours of video, a task that has become more time-consuming since the protests.
The agency does not have the power to discipline officers. Instead, it makes recommendations to the Police Department and, in the most serious cases, prosecutes officers before an administrative judge. The police commissioner has the final say on discipline.
The board has 18 months to investigate cases and make recommendations, and delays can cause cases to be closed before inquiries are complete.
Over the summer, the board threatened to bring charges against officers who refused to show up for remote interviews with investigators after the Police Department declined for weeks to take action on the matter. The department eventually ordered the officers to comply.
Like Thelwell, Duerr was among the agency’s longest-serving employees and, like her, he was an expert on the Police Department and the disciplinary process, Case said.
“These are people who have deep institutional knowledge spanning multiple executive directors, multiple police commissioners, multiple mayors, on how to obtain and present evidence of police misconduct,” he said. “It doesn’t seem that there’s any reasonable reason to choose these people to terminate, except to retaliate against them for something.”

Subject: Review boards; Mayors; Employees; Police brutality

Business indexing term: Subject: Employees

Location: New York City New York; New York

People: Floyd, George

Identifier / keyword: Economy, Business And Finance; Electronics; Science And Technology; Computers And The Internet; United States; Police Department (Nyc); De Blasio, Bill; Thelwell, Winsome; Napolitano, Nicole M; Duerr, J Christopher; Davie, Frederick A; Buchanan, Dane; Cameras; State Legislatures; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Social Conditions And Trends; Politics And Government; Labor And Jobs; Crime, Law And Justice; Criminal Justice; New York City; Minneapolis (Minn); Propublica; Police Department (Minneapolis, Minn); New York Times; Civilian Complaint Review Board; City Council (Nyc); Floyd, George (D 2020); Deaths (Fatalities); Mayors; Discrimination; States (Us); Law And Legislation; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Police

Title: Layoffs at Police Watchdog Agency Prompt Claims of Retaliation

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 13, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-13 @ 20:51

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2460171821

Document URL: https://ezproxy.ms u.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/layoffs-at-police-watchdog-agency-prompt-claims/docview/2460171821/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 13, 2020

Last updated: 2020-11-15

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 9 of 34

The Afrobeats Star Davido, an Upbeat Voice in a Turbulent Time

Author: Pareles, Jon

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/afrobeats-star-davido-upbeat-voice-turbulent-time/docview/2460133587/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=The+Afrobeats+Star+Davido%2C+an+Upbeat+Voice+in+a+Turbulent+Time&amp;aulast=Pareles%2C+Jon&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Davido — the American-born Nigerian Afrobeats artist David Adedeji Adeleke — has built an international career on songs about love and lust that have collectively amassed more than 1 billion streams. The album he is releasing Friday, “A Better Time,” is filled with them.
But the perky song that opens the LP, “Fem” (“Shut Up”), has taken on an unexpected role since it appeared in September: as a protest song for Nigerians demonstrating to end police brutality and corruption.
“It was on an entirely different subject,” Davido, 27, said via a shaky video connection from his home in Lagos, with his fiancée, Chioma Rowland, and their 1-year-old son, Ifeanyi, nearby. “What the song is literally saying is to tell somebody that talks too much to shut up.”
The lyrics, mixing English and Yoruba, boast about Davido’s success and taunt those who envy him: “Before the whole matter gets dangerous/You need to make sure you don’t say too much.” Protesters have sung “Fem” in the faces of police and government officials.
The protests were set off by anger at a notorious police unit, the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, and became known as the #EndSARS movement. On Oct. 11, Davido joined protests in Abuja, the capital of Nigeria, and ended up defusing a confrontation between the police and demonstrators; videos of the incident raced across social media. He had come for a meeting with the inspector general of police, Mohammed Adumu, initially hoping to bring along fellow artists. He also had a livestreamed meeting with Nigeria’s speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila.
“They kept on saying, ‘Yeah, but give us time, give us time,’ ” Davido recalled. “But it’s like, yo, we’ve given you time. You have to understand people have been fighting this system since 1960. It’s long overdue. And it doesn’t even end with SARS. EndSARS is one of a million problems.”
Unrest has continued. About a week after Davido’s meetings in Abuja, Nigerian soldiers shot and killed peaceful protesters in the Lekki neighborhood of Lagos. Burna Boy, another leading Afrobeats performer, released a furious single, “20 10 20,” that includes gunshots recorded at the scene.
Yet Burna Boy has often incorporated historical and sociopolitical messages in his songs. Davido, instead, has concentrated on more lighthearted topics: romance, ambition and positive thinking. One of his first big hits in Nigeria, “Dami Duro” from 2011, declares, “You can’t stop me”; it was his reaction, he told the website Bella Naija, to being picked up by the police on his way to the studio.
“One thing about Africans — rich or poor, happy or sad, no matter the situation going on in your culture, you always find time to smile and just be happy,” Davido said. “People always like to celebrate. So on this album, there’s no downers. It’s just straight bangers and music to make people happy.”
Nigerian Afrobeats was poised for its American breakthrough in 2020. The music is a gleaming, transparent, ultramodern reclamation of a broad African diaspora — American and Afro-Caribbean styles as well as music from all around Africa — programmed by some of the world’s most creative producers and songwriters.
Like hip-hop, Afrobeats revels in collaborations and crossovers. Tiwa Savage, who sings a duet with Davido for “Tanana,” on the new album (after his appearance on her 2020 album, “Celia”), said in a video interview that Afrobeats is “a new genre and still growing. I think we all realize that we need to work together. We’ve all realized that it can’t be just one person. We all have to come as a force.”
Leading Afrobeats performers like Davido, Savage, Burna Boy, Wizkid and Mr Eazi have already proved themselves across Africa and Europe. They have been signed to multinational labels, drawn millions of streams and sung alongside American and British superstars — notably Drake, who collaborated with Wizkid on the hit “One Dance,” and Beyoncé, who embraced Afrobeats on her 2019 album “The Lion King: The Gift” and its 2020 “visual album” expansion, “Black Is King.”
American album releases, concert tours and festival dates were booked for Afrobeats stars in 2020. Then the pandemic hit and plans collapsed. Davido had to cancel a sold-out, 26-show American tour soon after it began — but it only made him more prolific.
He returned to Lagos and brought a revolving cast of producers to his home studio, working at all hours. “I definitely like to be there for the whole process, from the beat, to the engineering, to the arrangements, to the mixing, to the mastering — everything,” he said.
In a few months, they churned out more than three dozen songs; 17 appear on “A Better Time.” Davido said, “I just kept on recording. I had nothing else to do.”
Davido was born in Atlanta but grew up in Lagos; his father, Adedeji T. Adeleke, is one of Nigeria’s wealthiest businessmen, the founder and CEO of the conglomerate Pacific Holdings Ltd. “I’m from both sides of the world,” he said. “I’m from Nigeria and at the same time I’m from America. And it’s like both sides are going crazy right now.”
After attending the British International School in Lagos, he returned to America to study business administration at Oakwood University in Huntsville, Alabama. But he was more interested in music, and he got the equipment to start producing his own beats. While in the United States, he also soaked up hip-hop’s entrepreneurial spirit. “I wouldn’t say my time in the States affects my African music,” he said. “But my style, the way I dress, my attitude, my charisma, the way I run my label — I think I get a lot of that from studying the American system and people like 50 Cent.”
Against his parents’ wishes, Davido left college and moved to London and then to Lagos to make music, determined to prove he was not merely some wealthy dilettante. He released his first album, “Omo Baba Olowo” (“Son of a Rich Man”), in 2012, when he was 19. He had hit after hit in Nigeria, and he drew collaborators from Africa and then beyond: Meek Mill and Rae Sremmurd on non-album singles, Tinashe on his 2016 EP “Son of Mercy,” Chris Brown and the Jamaican hitmaker Popcaan on his 2019 album “A Good Time.” Meanwhile his tour venues kept getting larger; in 2019, he headlined the 20,000-capacity O2 Arena in London.
While his international audience expanded, Davido found himself singing more, not fewer, lyrics in Yoruba rather than English. “Back in the day, I’d say everybody really had the mindset that, ‘Oh, the more English you sing, the more they understand you,’ ” he said. “But my biggest records in America are records where I’ve spoken my dialect.”
The new album includes a twinkling affirmation of deep affection, “Very Special”; the breezily suspicious “Something Fishy”; a touch of 1990s hip-hop with appearances from Nas and Hit-Boy on “Birthday Cake”; and “So Crazy,” a midtempo duet with Atlanta rapper Lil Baby that seesaws between heartbreak and come-on. Davido also has African collaborators, including Kenyan band Sauti Sol, South African rapper and singer Sho Madjozi and Nigerian singer and producer CKay.
Davido secured a collaboration with Nicki Minaj, “Holy Ground,” when, drunk after a night at a club, he sent her a direct message on Instagram, where she follows him. “I’m like, ‘Hello, Nicki, I’m a big fan. I got a hit for us.’ She says, ‘Send it.’ I’m like, what? And then I send it. And two days later she sent it back. That’s exactly what happened: no label in between, no mutual friend, nothing like that. It was just plain magic.”
Despite his excitement about the new work, the pandemic has left Davido, like countless other musicians, frustrated about what comes next. “I’m not even sure if I’m going to be able to perform in the near future — and I’ve got all these banging records,” he said. “It’s taking a toll on me.”
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Rap music; Careers; African music; Musicians & conductors; Pandemics; Musical performances; Demonstrations & protests; Singers

Business indexing term: Subject: Careers

Location: New York; Nigeria; Africa; Ghana; Atlanta Georgia; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: A Better Time (Album); Crime, Law And Justice; Arts, Culture And Entertainment; Special Anti Robbery Squad (Sars); Conflict, War And Peace; Content Type: Personal Profile; Popcaan (Singer); Celia (Album); Black Is King (Movie); Savage, Tiwa; Type Of Material; George Floyd Protests (2020); Quarantine (Life And Culture); Davido (1992 ); Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Madjozi, Sho; The Lion King: The Gift (Album); Ogulu, Damini (Burna Boy); Nigerian Americans; Mohammed, The Prophet Of Islam; Lil Baby (Rapper); Meek Mill (Rapper); Wizkid (Singer); O2 Arena (London, England); Tinashe (1993 ); Brown, Chris (1989 ); Pareles, Jon; Knowles, Beyonce; Minaj, Nicki; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Murders, Attempted Murders And Homicides; Organizations, Societies And Clubs; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Labeling And Labels (Product); Rae Sremmurd (Music Group); Abuja (Nigeria); Drake (Rapper); Instagram Inc; Sars (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome); Lagos (Nigeria); Single Persons; Respiratory Diseases; 50 Cent; Huntsville (Ala); Jamaica (West Indies); Rap And Hip Hop; Crime And Criminals; Social Conditions And Trends; Atlanta (Ga); Police Department (Nyc); Epidemics; London (England); Southern States (Us); Race And Ethnicity; Politics And Government; Culture (Arts); Kenya; Caribbean Area; Medicine And Health; United States Politics And Government; Nigeria; Criminal Justice; New York Times; Great Britain; Alabama; Police; Science And Technology; Nas; Africa; Social Media; House Of Representatives; Computers And The Internet; Music; Europe; Art; United States; Entertainment

Title: The Afrobeats Star Davido, an Upbeat Voice in a Turbulent Time

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 13, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-13 @ 15:53

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2460133587

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/afrobeats-star-davido-upbeat-voice-turbulent-time/docview/2460133587/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 13, 2020

Last updated: 2022-09-06

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 10 of 34

Rep. Max Rose Is Defeated as Republicans Take Back NYC Seat

Author: Hughes, Jazmine

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rep-max-rose-is-defeated-as-republicans-take-back/docview/2459838807/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=Rep.+Max+Rose+Is+Defeated+as+Republicans+Take+Back+NYC+Seat&amp;aulast=Hughes%2C+Jazmine&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — Overcoming a swell of anti-Trump sentiment in New York City, Nicole Malliotakis, a Republican state assemblywoman, defeated Rep. Max Rose to give her party a lone seat in the city’s House delegation.
The defeat of Rose, who conceded Thursday, was not completely unexpected. The district, which covers Staten Island and a portion of South Brooklyn, is the most conservative in the city; it was the only New York City congressional district that President Donald Trump won in 2016.
That trend continued this year, as Trump led President-elect Joe Biden on Staten Island by roughly 24 percentage points after the machine count of ballots.
Yet Malliotakis’ victory was a stark illustration of the sharp political divisions in New York.
Biden easily carried the state, and most Democratic House candidates in New York City coasted to victory. It was different, however, in swing districts across the state, including two congressional contests each on Long Island and in central New York where Republicans jumped out to commanding leads.
It was also different in the 11th Congressional District, which Rose won in 2018. Indeed, Rose, 33, ran as a centrist, even attacking a fellow Democrat, Mayor Bill de Blasio, in campaign ads, calling him the “worst mayor in the history of New York City.”
Rose has also been far more reluctant to criticize Trump than his Democratic colleagues. Although Rose eventually voted to impeach the president last year, he had opposed the impeachment hearings and was one of the last Democrats to decide to impeach Trump.
But in April, he told Politico that he would be fine with Trump’s winning a second term, as long as it meant that the nation was better placed to control the coronavirus pandemic.
In June, Rose attended a demonstration in Staten Island to protest the death of George Floyd. His participation became a focal point of Malliotakis’ campaign, enabling her to accuse Rose of being a supporter of efforts to defund the police.
“She exploited Rose’s moderacy, and made much of the fact that he participated in a BLM rally, and that played really well with the communities in the South Shore,” said Richard Flanagan, a professor of political science at the College of Staten Island.
Rose had characterized his participation in the protest as a gesture of unity.
“For a brief moment, we didn’t see each other as Democrats or Republicans, but as Americans in pain and searching for a way to heal,” he said in an election night speech. “It may feel like a long time ago.”
Being viewed as anti-police and, for that matter, anti-Trump, probably hurt Rose in the conservative district, even though it has slightly more registered Democratic voters than Republican. For much of the last 75 years, a Democrat has held the seat; in the past decade, though, two Republicans, Michael Grimm and Dan Donovan, won the office.
For a first-time House candidate, Malliotakis, 39, had ample name recognition: In addition to her work in the state Legislature, she also ran for New York City mayor in 2017.
“This city has seen a significant shift to the left that’s made a lot of people uncomfortable in our community,” she said in an interview the day after Election Day. “I will be a voice that will provide a different perspective, and that’s where you get good policy — when you have a debate and hopefully end up somewhere in the middle.”
She spent her campaign tying Rose to his more progressive peers, including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and de Blasio.
She also focused on family values, crime rates and public safety, running ads that linked Rose to the mayor’s efforts to close the jails on Rikers Island, to overhaul bail laws and to amend police funding.
“Fewer cops on the street may be great for violent criminals, but it’s outright dangerous for the rest of us,” she said in an ad. The state assemblywoman was endorsed by the city’s five police unions.
Malliotakis had led by about 37,000 votes after the machine count, and Rose would have had to capture the vast majority of the mail-in ballots to close the gap.
“As we continue to count every ballot and are on track to narrow the gap by tens of thousands of votes,” Rose said in a statement Thursday, “it is now clear we will fall short.”
Though she initially distanced herself from the president in 2017, saying that she regretted voting for him, Malliotakis has since stressed her support for Trump, winning his endorsement earlier this year and holding a “get well” rally for him after his COVID-19 diagnosis.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Congressional districts; Public safety; Values; Political campaigns; Presidents; Police reform; Public hearings; Coronaviruses; Endorsements; COVID-19

Location: New York; Alaska; New York City New York; United States--US

People: Malliotakis, Nicole; Young, Don; Rose, Max

Identifier / keyword: Medicine And Health; Epidemics; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Elections; Voting And Voters; Conflict, War And Peace; Politics And Government; Presidential Elections (Us); Horizontal Terms; Crime, Law And Justice; Criminal Justice; Prisons And Prisoners; Adverti sing And Marketing; Economy, Business And Finance; Finances; Social Conditions And Trends; United States; Staten Island (Nyc); Southern States (Us); New York City; Long Island (Ny); Brooklyn (Nyc); Rikers Island Prison Complex; Republican Party; Politico, The; House Of Representatives; Democratic Party; College Of Staten Island; De Blasio, Bill; Trump, Donald J; Rose, Max (1986 ); Pelosi, Nancy; Ocasio Cortez, Alexandria; Malliotakis, Nicole; Grimm, Michael G; Donovan, Daniel M Jr; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Bail; Crime And Criminals; United States Politics And Government; Impeachment; Shutdowns (Institutional); Black Lives Matter Movement; Police; Black People; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Budgets And Budgeting; Race And Ethnicity; Political Advertising; Elections, Mayors; Discrimination; Trump Ukraine Whistle Blower Complaint And Impeachment Inquiry; State Legislatures; George Floyd Protests (2020); Absentee Voting; Police Reform

Title: Rep. Max Rose Is Defeated as Republicans Take Back NYC Seat

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 12, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-12 @ 23:17

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2459838807

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/rep-max-rose-is-defeated-as-republicans-take-back/docview/2459838807/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 12, 2020

Last updated: 2022-09-06

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 11 of 34

In ‘Small Axe,’ Steve McQueen Explores Britain’s Caribbean Heritage

Author: Clark, Ashley

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/small-axe-steve-mcqueen-explores-britain-s/docview/2459838395/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=In+%E2%80%98Small+Axe%2C%E2%80%99+Steve+McQueen+Explores+Britain%E2%80%99s+Caribbean+Heritage&amp;aulast=Clark%2C+Ashley&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
It took Steve McQueen a long time to make a film about Black life in Britain.
“I needed to understand myself, where I came from,” the director said of his new project, “Small Axe.” “Sometimes, you’ve got to have a certain maturity, and I wouldn’t have had that 10, 15 years ago.”
McQueen, who was born in West London to Grenadian and Trinidadian parents, is one of Britain’s most gifted and garlanded Black filmmakers. He’s best known to American audiences as the director of the star-studded “Widows” from 2018 and “12 Years a Slave,” in 2013, for which he became the first Black director of a best picture Oscar winner. When he collected that trophy, McQueen was already developing the drama project with the BBC that would become “Small Axe.”
Six years later, McQueen is debuting not one, but five films about various aspects of London’s West Indian community, set between the late 1960s and the mid-1980s, airing in the U.S. as an anthology series on Amazon Prime Video, starting Nov. 20.
When “Small Axe” began development, the project was pitched to the BBC as conventional television, telling one story over six hours or so (Amazon signed on as a producing partner last year.) “To get my foot in the door, it started off as a sort of episodic situation,” McQueen said in a phone interview from Amsterdam, where he’s lived since 1997. “But then I realized they had to be individual films because there’s too much interesting material.”
Today, the finished product comprises five discrete works of varying lengths (the shortest is 70 minutes; the longest 128 minutes), all directed and co-written by McQueen. (Courttia Newland co-wrote two episodes and Alastair Siddons co-wrote three.)
The installments were shot in a variety of formats (including 16 mm and 35 mm film) by emerging Antiguan cinematographer Shabier Kirchner — the first three premiered at this year’s New York Film Festival. The films include an epic scale, fact-based courtroom drama (“Mangrove”), a delicate semi-autobiographical portrait (“Education”) and an intimate dance-party mood piece (“Lovers Rock”), with myriad tones and textures in between.
The series will air in Britain on BBC One, which is a matter of significance for McQueen. “It was important for me that these films were broadcast on the BBC, because it has accessibility to everyone in the country,” he said. “These are national histories.”
“Mangrove,” the series opener, focuses on the sensational trial of a group of Black activists in 1971. They were accused of inciting a riot during a protest against the targeted police harassment of patrons at The Mangrove, a Caribbean restaurant in London’s Notting Hill district that was a thriving hub for Black intellectuals and artists. (The film offers a corrective to the whitewashed fantasia of “Notting Hill,” Richard Curtis’ 1999 romantic comedy.) Not only did the nine — including Trinidadian-British activists Darcus Howe and Altheia Jones-LeCointe, key members of the British Black Panther Party — beat the rioting charge, they forced the first judicial acknowledgment of racism from British police.
This installment is particularly resonant in the light of Britain’s recent Windrush scandal, which saw hundreds of Commonwealth citizens detained, deported and denied legal rights as a result of a 2012 government policy to create a “hostile environment” for immigrants.
The majority of victims of the scandal were part of the “Windrush generation” of largely Caribbean people who were invited by the colonial British government to help rebuild the economy in the aftermath of World War II. (The name comes from the Empire Windrush, a ship that brought an early group from the Caribbean to Britain in 1948.) After arriving in Britain, many members of this cohort faced hostility, discrimination in employment and housing, and police harassment. Yet, as “Small Axe” demonstrates, they found ways to organize and resist.
In “Mangrove”’s climactic sequence, Darcus Howe (a magnetic Malachi Kirby), representing himself in court, declares that the case “has seared the consciousness of the Black community to an extent that the history of Britain cannot now be written without it.” It’s a rousing line that left me feeling rueful: In reality, mainstream histories of Britain have largely excluded the story of the Mangrove defendants, as well as the stories of other pioneering Black figures.
Actress Letitia Wright, who was born in Guyana and moved to London at 7, said in a phone interview she was unaware of the Mangrove story before researching the project, for which she was cast by McQueen and casting director Gary Davy after one meeting, and no conventional audition.
“To be honest, I had no clue — it’s not in the textbooks at school. The stronghold of Black History Month [October] in the U.K. is American history,” said Wright, who plays Altheia Jones-LeCointe, a founder of the Black Panther Movement in the U.K. “You have mostly — and I honor and respect them always — Martin Luther King and Malcolm X on the posters, but you don’t have the Altheias.”
The role allows Wright, who rose to blockbuster-level fame as Shuri in “Black Panther,” to play a real-life Black Panther. Jones-LeCointe, who was born in Trinidad and moved to England in 1965 to study for a doctorate in biochemistry, has been described as “the most remarkable woman I’ve ever met” by poet Linton Kwesi Johnson.
Caribbean pride underpins “Small Axe” and an animated McQueen rattled off a roll call of resistance icons with West Indian heritage that have informed his life and work: “Stokely Carmichael, from Trinidad, coined the phrase ‘Black Power.’ Look at Marcus Garvey. Malcolm X’s mother was from Grenada. C.L.R. James,” he said. “This is nothing new, people from the West Indies and our influence. That’s where we come from: rebel country.”
The anthology’s title comes from an African proverb popularized in Jamaica by Bob Marley’s eponymous 1973 song (“If you are the big tree, we are the small ax”), and British-Guyanese scholar Paul Gilroy — who developed the idea of “trans-Atlantic Blackness,” a culture that is at once African, American, Caribbean and British — was series consultant. For me, a grandson of the Caribbean whose paternal grandparents were part of the Windrush generation, the latticework of respect and representation for the islands offered by “Small Axe,” on such a grand scale, at times felt overwhelming.
Equally overwhelming, however, are the more harrowing aspects of “Small Axe,” especially in the wake of the killing of George Floyd in Minnesota and the protests and intensified public conversations around police brutality and police abolition that followed. The third film in the series, the early 1980s-set “Red, White and Blue,” stars John Boyega as the real-life figure Leroy Logan who, following the vicious police beating of his father, abandoned a career in research science to join the London police force. Logan believed the force could be reformed from within at a time when tensions between the police and Britain’s Black communities had never been higher.
It’s arresting — and slightly surreal — to watch this earnest, arguably naive character being portrayed by an actor who made headlines in June for delivering a fierce speech in London’s Hyde Park condemning police brutality. “It’s been crazy,” Boyega said in a phone interview, adding that people have asked him if he was cast in “Small Axe” because of his role in the Black Lives Matter movement, even though the project wrapped before the protests.
“People talk about the different types of racism Black people deal with, and often expect that the racism in America is quite outward and in-your-face, whereas in the U.K. there’s subtlety, layers to it,” Boyega said. “To explore that conversation in a healthy way is kind of cool.”
When asked about Floyd and the protests, McQueen replied wearily. “I’m just tired,” he said. In Britain “it took a long time for people to believe the West Indian community about what was going on. All of a sudden we’re being believed. It’s taken a man to die in the most horrible way. It’s taken a pandemic. And it’s taken millions of people marching in the streets for the broader public to think ‘possibly there’s something about this racism thing.’”
“If you don’t laugh, you’d cry,” he added. “That’s how we deal.”
Near the end of “Mangrove,” Jones-LeCointe and a fellow defendant, Barbara Beese (Rochenda Sandall), collapse into exhausted laughter at the absurdity of their trial. McQueen acknowledged that making “Small Axe,” too, has been an emotional roller coaster, one he’s still processing.
“I just cried the other day thinking of my father,” he said. “My father is not here to see this — a lot of West Indian men of that generation lived and died without having that acknowledgment. And it’s heavy still.”
“But we have a future!” he exclaimed, brightening. “That’s the main thing.” In the beautiful “Small Axe ,” the past is the future, and that future is now.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Anthologies; Racism; Riots; Motion picture directors & producers; Police brutality; Trials

Location: New York; United States--US; United Kingdom--UK

People: Malcolm X

Company / organization: Name: Amazon.com Inc; NAICS: 334310, 454110, 518210

Identifier / keyword: Johnson, Linton Kwesi; Small Axe (Tv Program); Crime, Law And Justice; Arts, Culture And Entertainment; Conflict, War And Peace; George Floyd Protests (2020); Quarantine (Life And Culture); Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Curtis, Richard (Film Director); Gilroy, Paul (1956 ); Wright, Letitia (1993 ); Hyde Park (London, England); Black Lives Matter Movement; Black People; Garvey, Marcus Jr; Boyega, John (1992 ); Jamaica (Queens, Ny); Mcqueen, Steve; Marley, Bob; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; War Crimes, Genocide And Crimes Against Humanity; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; King, Martin Luther Jr; Black Panther (Movie); Workplace Hazards And Violations; Civil Rights Movement (1954 68); Dating And Relationships; West Indian Americans; West Indies; Grenada; Nineteen Hundred Eighties; Reggae Music; Black Panther Party; Guyana; Indian Americans; Malcolm X; Holocaust And The Nazi Era; Immigration Detention; History (Academic Subject); Trinidad And Tobago; Crime And Criminals; Social Conditions And Trends; Murders And Attempted Murders; Epidemics; London (England); British Broadcasting Corp; Immigration And Emigration; Civil Rights And Liberties; Race And Ethnicity; Politics And Government; Culture (Arts); Actors And Actresses; Web Original Progr amming; Humanities; Caribbean Area; Medicine And Health; Law And Legislation; AmazonCom Inc; Criminal Justice; England; Illegal Immigrants; Minnesota; Great Britain; Festivals; New York Film Festival; Police; Science And Technology; Discrimination; Africa; Education; Computers And The Internet; Music; Television; Movies; Art; United States; Entertainment

Title: In ‘Small Axe,’ Steve McQueen Explores Britain’s Caribbean Heritage

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 12, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-12 @ 23:00

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2459838395

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/small-axe-steve-mcqueen-explores -britain-s/docview/2459838395/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 12, 2020

Last updated: 2020-11-13

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 12 of 34

Layoffs at Police Watchdog Agency Prompt Claims of Retaliation

Author: Southall, Ashley

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/layoffs-at-police-watchdog-agency-prompt-claims/docview/2459838390/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=Layoffs+at+Police+Watchdog+Agency+Prompt+Claims+of+Retaliation&amp;aulast=Southall%2C+Ashley&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — Four senior officials at the New York City agency that investigates allegations of police misconduct were abruptly laid off Thursday in what officials described as a restructuring aimed at expanding its investigative muscle.
But some employees said the layoffs at the agency, the Civilian Complaint Review Board, were retaliation for the officials’ roles in criticizing the agency’s response when the Police Department refuses to cooperate with its investigations.
The layoffs come after a series of deaths of Black people at the hands of police, including George Floyd in Minneapolis, spurred massive protests against police brutality and a surge of complaints against officers in New York City and across the nation.
The protests have focused new attention on the review board and its work as momentum has built in the City Council and state Legislature to overhaul the criminal justice system and address systemic racism.
A spokesman for the Civilian Complaint Review Board said the agency was eliminating four senior positions so that the agency could hire 20 additional investigators over the next year. “This will hopefully make investigations quicker and more thorough,” the spokesman, Ethan Teicher, said.
But current and former employees said the four people laid off — two chiefs of investigations, one deputy chief of investigations, and the director of policy and advocacy — all pushed for the agency to take a more aggressive stance toward the Police Department.
The officials — J. Christopher Duerr, Winsome Thelwell, Dane Buchanan and Nicole M. Napolitano — were summoned to meetings early Thursday with human resources officials and summarily let go, according to an agency employee with knowledge of the matter. None of the officials returned messages from a reporter seeking comment Thursday.
Buchanan was the co-author of a memo obtained by ProPublica outlining how the Police Department was withholding crucial evidence, including body-camera video, from the review board and steps the agency could take — but did not — to fight back.
Thelwell is one of the agency’s longest-serving employees, with about 25 years of experience.
Napolitano had written several memos to agency executives detailing areas in which it could improve.
The turmoil inside the review board comes as recent demonstrations against police brutality prompted state lawmakers to repeal a law that had been used to make officers’ disciplinary records secret. In response, the review board released a database of civilian complaints going back decades.
The agency does not have the power to discipline officers. Instead, it makes recommendations to the Police Department and, sometimes, prosecutes the most serious cases before an administrative judge.
The board has 18 months to investigate cases and make recommendations, and delays can cause a case to be closed before the review board completes its probe.
Over the summer, the review board threatened to bring charges against officers who refused to show up for remote interviews with investigators after the Police Department declined to take action for weeks. The department eventually ordered the officers to comply.
Andrew Case, a former spokesman for the review board, said Thelwell and Duerr were among the agency’s longest-serving employees and were experts on the Police Department and the disciplinary process.
“These are people who have deep institutional knowledge spanning multiple executive directors, multiple police commissioners, multiple mayors, on how to obtain and present evidence of police misconduct,” he said. “It doesn’t seem that there’s any reasonable reason to choose these people to terminate, except to retaliate against them for something.”

Subject: Review boards; Official misconduct; Police departments; Criminal investigations; Demonstrations & protests; Layoffs; Employees; Police brutality

Business indexing term: Subject: Layoffs Employees

Location: New York City New York; New York

People: Floyd, George

Identifier / keyword: United States; Social Conditions And Trends; Politics And Government; Labor And Jobs; Crime, Law And Justice; Criminal Justice; New York City; Minneapolis (Minn); Propublica; Police Department (Minneapolis, Minn); New York Times; Civilian Complaint Review Board; City Council (Nyc); Floyd, George (D 2020); Deaths (Fatalities); Mayors; Discrimination; States (Us); Law And Legislation; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Police

Title: Layoffs at Police Watchdog Agency Prompt Claims of Retaliation

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 12, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-12 @ 21:55

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2459838390

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/layoffs-at-police-watchdog-agency-prompt-claims/docview/2459838390/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 12, 2020

Last updated: 2020-11-13

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 13 of 34

The President’s Backup Band

Author: Bernstein, Jacob

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/president-s-backup-band/docview/2459497157/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=The+President%E2%80%99s+Backup+Band&amp;aulast=Bernstein%2C+Jacob&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
In August, Kerry Washington, Eva Longoria, Tracee Ellis Ross and Julia Louis-Dreyfus took turns as emcees at the Democratic National Convention. They were picked seemingly for their ability to reach different groups of women voters and represented exactly what Hollywood and the party hoped to telegraph about itself: classy, inclusive, empathic.
Donald Trump never had the acceptance of this crowd.
Long after he became a famous developer, there remained about him a face-pressed-against-the-glass quality, at least among the establishment of Park Avenue and the glitziest people of Hollywood. Not for nothing did Fran Lebowitz once describe him as a “poor person’s idea of a rich person.”
He spent much of 1990 trying to get Madonna to perform at the opening of the Taj Mahal in Atlantic City, but the only thing he got was dissed when Interview asked her that year about rumors he was going to run for president and she responded by calling him “a wimp,” before adding that America should select someone “more handsome.”
When a Trump got invited onto the yachts of media and entertainment moguls like Barry Diller, David Geffen and Rupert Murdoch, her name was usually Ivanka.
It wasn’t a surprise that even the most apolitical stars in America felt the need to express disgust with Trump during and after his 2016 presidential run.
Hollywood is, after all, a bastion of liberalism, and the jet fuel of the outgoing president’s political career was a racist conspiracy theory he peddled about Barack Obama’s birthplace. Having Scott Baio and Antonio Sabato Jr. as supporters doesn’t really count as a big win, Janice Min, the former editorial director of The Hollywood Reporter, said in an interview.
But because Trump’s political ascent occurred after his hit reality show, “The Apprentice”; because he had a flair for the comic insult that is unrivaled in modern politics; and because — in the absence of real celebrity alliances — he essentially hatched a bunch of his own while in office, his presidency had an air of infotainment like no other.
More than masterminding the concept of alternative facts, Kellyanne Conway, Jason Miller and Steve Bannon created seemingly alternate realities. Everything was role playing. Even Paul Manafort’s hair was a show.
And with conventional, big-league stardom in decline and microcelebrity on ascent — hastened by Instagram, podcasting, Twitter and reality TV — Trump and his backup band of pugilistic pundits were right on schedule.
Jared Kushner and Stephen Miller, who at least in appearance resembled the austere, technocratic types who populated the Obama administration, took on important, but largely behind-the-scenes roles. The outward-facing men of Trumpworld tended to be big, scruffy and full of bluster.
Bannon, who helped found the right-wing media machine Breitbart and managed much of the first Trump campaign, seemed perpetually enraged. Brad Parscale, who worked on the first and managed much of the second, looked in a suit like a UFC fighter on a job interview.
The women in his orbit, chief among them Conway — who described herself in 1998 to Harper’s Bazaar as a person whose broad mind and tiny waist never traded places — more often than not looked like Fox News hosts. And occasionally were.
Trump’s critics derided the men and women of his tribe as D-list. What they often failed to see, said Jose Antonio Vargas, the founder of Define American, a media advocacy organization that works with celebrities on changing the public perception of immigrants, was that this was what made them effective.
In an America filled with people accustomed to being disdained and dismissed, Vargas argued, voters in red states and swing states for the first time in a long while got to see a White House that was almost entirely devoid of mystique.
“Through the influencers in his orbit, Trump created a parallel reality for people who don’t need the validation of The New York Times, who don’t listen to NPR, and couldn’t give a hoot about the difference between New York magazine and The New Yorker,” he said.
Min said: “Who is on MSNBC? More often than not, it’s someone in Georgetown with carefully curated books on American history behind them. The person speaking for Trump on Fox News is loud, brash and may not have read a book in the last year, but it doesn’t matter. It’s from the gut.”
Twitter, where ideas get winnowed down to sound bites and fights get likes, has proved to be a forum remarkably like reality television, Min added. Not just because Trump could smack down enemies without adjudication by journalists, but because his habit of retweeting the most vitriolic attacks on his opponents amplified the voices of those making them, turning them into personalities and building the illusion of a populist uprising around what was mostly a cult of personality.
“It’s algorithmic behavior,” she said. “People like what you say, you get retweets and validation from the president, so you say more and more of it. It’s like in reality television, where you get rewarded for how outrageous your antics are, how bold you are, and also, how aggressively you’ll go after the opponent.”
Trump didn’t have to look far to find people who’d do this. His eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., a self-professed “social media troll,” amassed a following of 6.2 million people by throwing down at people like Robert Mueller, Joe Biden and Elizabeth Warren. That led to a book, “Triggered,” a New York Times bestseller.
It is dedicated to “the Deplorables,” a description Hillary Clinton used during her 2016 presidential campaign to describe many Trump supporters, who reclaimed it as a badge of honor. “While the elite of the other party look down on you and would rather you stay silent, I salute your work ethic, patriotism and values,” wrote the younger Trump, whose girlfriend, Kimberly Guilfoyle, a cable news fixture of dubious distinction, became a speaker at the Republican National Convention this year.
Up was down. Down led up.
The gulf between the personalities Trump minted and the surrogates picked by the Biden campaign to help carry his message mirrors the changing identities of the parties, said Robert George, a right-leaning professor who serves as the McCormick Professor of Jurisprudence and director of the James Madison Program in American Ideals and Institutions at Princeton University. The historically working-class Democratic Party is now increasingly urban and college educated. The historically elite Republican Party, more and more, courts the working class, he noted.
Despite coddling white supremacists, Trump still courted Black celebrities, including Kanye West and more recently rapper Lil Wayne, who said he endorsed Trump because of his stated intent to introduce a $500 billion “Platinum Plan” to help Black entrepreneurs get businesses off the ground.
Among Black activists, there was great skepticism about the plan being anything other than a cynical election ploy — and the photo op with Lil Wayne being little more than cover for Trump’s history of racist rhetoric and alleged history as a developer of mistreating Black residents at his properties.
It recalled, somewhat, Trump’s photo ops with Lynnette Hardaway and Rochelle Richardson — two Black conservatives who called themselves Diamond and Silk and uploaded videos of themselves to YouTube, in which they expressed their admiration for Trump and threw shade at Clinton.
On the surface, said Rashad Robinson, the president of Color of Change, a progressive nonprofit civil rights organization that monitors the media and works closely with Hollywood, public appearances by Diamond and Silk gave people who aren’t white a degree of permission to vote for Trump.
But their real function, he argued in an interview, was to provide psychological comfort to those who are, giving them a signal that their sense of persecution at the hands of woke America was rooted not in racism but clearheadedness. They also provided comic relief at rallies that took on a Coachella for Conservatives vibe, complete with crowd surfers like Vernon Jones, a Democratic former member of Georgia’s state Legislature, who did this maskless at a campaign stop in Macon, Georgia, last month, as the pandemic continued to surge.
“Trump created the cult that includes people who serve as court jesters there to entertain the monarch and augment his power,” Robinson said. “The court jester is not the most talented person in the village. It’s the clown. It’s the person willing to do the ‘thing’ to serve the monarch, the folks who will say crazy stuff and say it even more crazy than Trump would.”
Of course, he noted, the people who served in this function were not just Black.
Enter Richard Grenell, a telegenic, white, openly gay, right-wing Fox News contributor who in 2017 became the ambassador to Germany after staunchly supporting the president on air. In February, he was named the acting director of national intelligence, a temporary position that nevertheless gave him oversight of the National Security Agency, the CIA and 15 other government agencies.
After the election, Grennell headed to Las Vegas to help with Trump’s baseless effort to uncover widespread voter fraud. There, he was captured on camera at a news conference dressing down an MSNBC reporter, simply because the reporter asked what evidence exists to back up the president’s claims of illegitimate voting. It established him as yet another member of the ever-revolving backup band that refuses to admit a majority of Americans have pulled the plug.
But Vargas of Define American said the coming end of the Trump presidency would not signify the end of the players within it. “As much as establishment Republicans recoil at Trump, they are still being very careful about critiquing him, because doing so isn’t just a decision to go up against him,” he said. “It’s a decision to go up against this whole media ecosystem he created that’s not going away.”

Subject: Conservatism; Celebrities; Social networks; Political parties; Political conventions; Political campaigns; Women; Reality programming; Presidential elections; Candidates; White supremacy

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: New York; Georgia; United States--US

People: Trump, Donald J; Lil Wayne (rapper)

Company / organization: Name: Fox News Channel; NAICS: 516120

Identifier / keyword: Lifestyle; Elections; Crime, Law And Justice; Criminal Justice; Police; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Science And Technology; Computers And The Internet; Festivals; Conflict, War And Peace; Presidential Elections (Us); Music; Arts, Culture And Entertainment; Culture (Arts); Economy, Business And Finance; Labor And Jobs; Horizontal Terms; Politics And Government; Social Conditions And Trends; United States; Park Avenue (Manhattan, Ny); Macon (Ga); Las Vegas (Nev); Germany; Georgia; Georgetown (Washington, Dc); Atlantic City (Nj); Twitter; YoutubeCom; Republican Party; Princeton University; Office Of The Director Of National Intelligence; New Yorker; New York Times; New York (Magazine); National Security Agency; National Public Radio; Msnbc; Instagram Inc; House Of Representatives; Hollywood Reporter; Harper's Bazaar; Fox Entertainment Group Inc; Fox Broadcasting Co; Everything (Magazine); Democratic Party; Color Of Change (Nonprofit); Breitbart News Network Llc; West, Kanye; Washington, Kerry; Warren, Elizabeth; Vargas, Jose Antonio; Trump, Ivanka; Trump, Donald J Jr; Trump, Donald J; Sabato, Antonio Jr; Ross, Tracee Ellis; Robinson, Rashad; Richardson, Rochelle (Silk); Parscale, Brad (1976 ); Obama, Barack; Murdoch, Rupert; Mueller, Robert S Iii; Min, Janice; Miller, Jason (1975 ); Manafort, Paul J; Madison, James (1751 1836); Louis Dreyfus, Julia; Longoria, Eva; Lil Wayne; Lebowitz, Fran; Kushner, Jared; Hardaway, Lynnette (Diamond); Guilfoyle, Kimberly; Grenell, Richard; Diller, Barry; Conway, Kellyanne; Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Bannon, Stephen K; Triggered: How The Left Thrives On Hate And Wants To Silence Us (Book); The Apprentice (Tv Program); Coachella Valley Music And Arts Festival; Fashion And Apparel; Rap And Hip Hop; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Discrimination; Right Wing Extremism And Alt Right; Media; Celebrities; Espionage And Intelligence Services; Reality Television; Fringe Groups And Movements; Black People; Democratic National Convention; Republican National Convention; Hiring And Promotion; Social Media; Television; State Legislatures; George Floyd Protests (2020); Race And Ethnicity; Russian Interference In 2016 Us Elections And Ties To Trump Associates; News And News Media; Voter Fraud (Election Fraud); United States Politics And Government; Appointments And Executive Changes

Title: The President’s Backup Band

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 11, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-11 @ 23:39

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2459497157

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/president-s-backup-band/docview/2459497157/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 11, 2020

Last updated: 2022-10-14

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 14 of 34

What Went Wrong With Polling? Some Early Theories

Author: Cohn, Nate

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-went-wrong-with-polling-some-early-theories/docview/2459028258/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=What+Went+Wrong+With+Polling%3F+Some+Early+Theories&amp;aulast=Cohn%2C+Nate&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Asking for a polling post-mortem at this stage is a little bit like asking a coroner for the cause of death while the body is still at the crime scene. You’re going to have to wait to conduct a full autopsy.
But make no mistake: It’s not too early to say that the polls’ systematic understatement of President Donald Trump’s support was very similar to the polling misfire of four years ago, and might have exceeded it.
For now, there is no easy excuse. After 2016, pollsters arrived at plausible explanations for why surveys had systematically underestimated Trump in the battleground states. One was that state polls didn’t properly weight respondents without a college degree. Another was that there were factors beyond the scope of polling, like the large number of undecided voters who appeared to break sharply to Trump in the final stretch.
This year, there seemed to be less cause for concern: In 2020, most state polls weighted by education, and there were far fewer undecided voters.
But in the end, the polling error in states was virtually identical to the miss from 2016, despite the steps taken to fix things. The Upshot’s handy “If the polls were as wrong as they were in 2016” chart turned out to be more useful than expected, and it nailed Joe Biden’s 1-point-or-less leads in Pennsylvania, Georgia and Arizona.
The national polls were even worse than they were four years ago, when the industry’s most highly respected and rigorous survey houses generally found Hillary Clinton leading by 4 points or less — close to her 2.1-point popular-vote victory. This year, Biden is on track to win the national vote by around 5 percentage points; no major national live-interview telephone survey showed him leading by less than 8 percentage points over the final month of the race.
The New York Times/Siena College polls were also less accurate than they were in 2018 or four years ago. In 2016, the last two Times/Siena polls were among a very small group of polls to show Trump tied or ahead in Florida and North Carolina. This time, nearly all of the Times/Siena surveys overestimated Biden to about the same extent as other surveys.
In the months ahead, troves of data will help add context to exactly what happened in this election, like final turnout data, the results by precinct and updated records of which voters turned out or stayed home. All of this data can be appended to our polling, to nail down where the polls were off most and help point toward why. But for now, it’s still too soon for a confident answer.
In the broadest sense, there are two ways to interpret the repeat of 2016’s polling error. One is that pollsters were wrong about what happened in 2016. As a result, the steps they took to address it left them no better off. Another is that survey research has gotten even more challenging since 2016, and whatever steps pollsters took to improve after 2016 were canceled out by a new set of problems.
Of these two, the latter interpretation — real improvements canceled out by new challenges — may make the most sense.
“I think our polls would have been even worse this year had we employed a pre-2016 methodology,” said Nick Gourevitch of Global Strategy Group, a Democratic polling firm that took steps to better represent Trump’s supporters. “These things helped make our data more conservative, though clearly they were not enough on their own to solve the problem.”
The explanation for 2016’s polling error, while not necessarily complete or definitive, was not contrived. Many state pollsters badly underrepresented the number of voters without a college degree, who backed Trump in huge numbers. The pollsters went back to their data after 2016 and found that they would have been much closer to the election result if they had employed the standard education adjustments that national surveys have long used. An Upshot analysis of national surveys found that failing to weight by education cost Trump about 4 points in polling support — enough to cover much of the 2016 polling error. Other pollsters had similar findings.
But this time, education weighting didn’t seem to help. State and national polls consistently showed Biden faring far better than Clinton did among white voters without a degree. Last week’s results made it clear that he didn’t.
Overall, the final national surveys in 2020 showed Trump leading by a margin of 58% to 37% among white voters without a degree. In 2016, they showed Trump ahead by far more, 59% to 30%. The results by county suggest that Biden made few gains at all among white voters without a degree nationwide and even did worse than Clinton’s 2016 showing in many critical states.
In contrast, the 2016 polls did show the decisive and sharp shift among white voters without a degree but underestimated its effect in many states because they underestimated the size of the group. Many state polls showed college graduates representing half of the likely electorate in 2016, compared with about 35% in census estimates.
The poll results among seniors are another symptom of a deeper failure in this year’s polling. Unlike in 2016, surveys consistently showed Biden winning by comfortable margins among voters 65 and older. The final NBC/WSJ poll showed Biden up 23 points among the group; the final Times/Siena poll showed him up by 10.
In the final account, there will be no reason to believe any of it was real.
This is a deeper kind of error than ones from 2016. It suggests a fundamental mismeasurement of the attitudes of a large demographic group, not just an underestimate of its share of the electorate. Put differently, the underlying raw survey data got worse over the last four years, canceling out the changes that pollsters made to address what went wrong in 2016.
It helps explain why the national surveys were worse than in 2016; they did weight by education four years ago and have made few to no changes since. It also helps explain why the error is so tightly correlated with what happened in 2016: It focuses on the same demographic group, even if the underlying source of the error among the group is quite different.
Polling clearly has some serious challenges. The industry has always relied on statistical adjustments to ensure that each group, like white voters without a degree, represents its proper share of the sample. But this helps only if the respondents you reach are representative of those you don’t. In 2016, they seemed to be representative enough for many purposes. In 2020, they were not.
So how did the polls get worse over the past four years? This is mainly speculation, but consider just a few possibilities:
The President (and the Polls) Hurt the Polls
There was no real indication of a “hidden Trump” vote in 2016. But maybe there was one in 2020. For years, the president attacked the news media and polling, among other institutions. The polls themselves lost quite a bit of credibility in 2016.
It’s hard not to wonder whether the president’s supporters became less likely to respond to surveys as their skepticism of institutions mounted, leaving the polls in a worse spot than they were four years ago.
“We now have to take seriously some version of the Shy Trump hypothesis,” said Patrick Ruffini, a Republican pollster for Echelon Insights. It would be a “problem of the polls simply not reaching large elements of the Trump coalition, which is causing them to underestimate Republicans across the board when he’s on the ballot.” A related possibility: During his term, Trump might have made gains among the kinds of voters who would be less likely to respond to surveys, and might have lost additional ground among voters who would be more likely to respond to surveys. College education, of course, is only a proxy for the traits that predict whether someone might back Trump or respond to a poll. There are other proxies as well, like whether you trust your neighbor; volunteer your time; are politically engaged.
Another proxy is turnout: People who vote are likelier to take political surveys. The Times/Siena surveys go to great lengths to reach nonvoters, which was a major reason our surveys were more favorable for the president than others in 2016. In 2020, the nonvoters reached by The Times were generally more favorable for Biden than those with a track record of turning out in recent elections. It’s possible that, in the end, the final data will suggest that Trump did a better job of turning out nonvoters who backed him. But it’s also possible that we reached the wrong low-turnout voters.
The Resistance Hurt the Polls
It’s well established that politically engaged voters are likelier to respond to political surveys, and it’s clear that the election of Trump led to a surge of political engagement on the left. Millions attended the Women’s March or took part in Black Lives Matter protests. Progressive activists donated enormous sums and turned out in record numbers for special elections that would have never earned serious national attention in a different era.
This surge of political participation might have also meant that the resistance became likelier to respond to political surveys, controlling for their demographic characteristics. Are the “MSNBC moms” now excited to take a poll while they put Rachel Maddow on mute in the background? Like most of the other theories presented here, there’s no hard evidence for it — but it does fit with some well-established facts about propensity to respond to surveys.
The Turnout Hurt the Polls
Political pollsters have often assumed that higher turnout makes polling easier, since it means that there’s less uncertainty about the composition of the electorate. Maybe that’s not how it worked out.
Heading into the election, many surveys showed something unusual: Democrats faring better among likely voters than among registered voters. Usually, Republicans hold the turnout edge.
Take Pennsylvania. The final CNN/SSRS poll of the state showed Biden up by 10 points among likely voters but by just 5 among registered voters. Monmouth showed Biden up by 7 among likely voters in a “high-turnout” scenario (which it ended up being) but by 5 points among registered voters. Marist? It had a lead of 6 points among likely voters and 5 points among registered voters. The ABC/Washington Post showed a 7-point lead for Biden among likely voters and a 4-point lead among registered voters.
It’s still too soon to say whether Republican turnout beat Democratic turnout, but it sure seems possible. In Florida, the one state where we do have hard turnout data, registered Republicans outnumbered registered Democrats by about 2 percentage points among those who actually voted, even though Democrats outnumber Republicans among registered voters by about 1.5 points in the state. Here, there is no doubt that the turnout was better for the president than the polls suggested, whether they’re private polls or the final Times/Siena poll — which showed registered Republicans with an edge of 0.7 points.
If Trump fared better among likely voters than among registered voters in Pennsylvania, a fundamental misfire on the estimate of turnout could very quickly explain some of the miss.
Unlike the other theories presented here, this one can be proved false or true. States will eventually update their voter registration files with a record of whether voters turned out in the election. We’ll be able to see the exact composition of the electorate by party registration, and we’ll also be able to see which of our respondents voted. Perhaps Trump’s supporters were likelier to follow through. We might start to get data from North Carolina and Georgia in the next few weeks. Other states might take longer.
The Pandemic Hurt the Polls
Remember those Times/Siena polls from October 2019 that showed Biden narrowly leading Trump? They turned out to be very close to the actual result, at least outside of Florida. They were certainly closer than the Times/Siena polls conducted since.
It wasn’t just the Times/Siena polls that were closer to the mark further ahead of the election. Results from pollsters in February and March look just about dead-on in retrospect, with Biden leading by about 6 points among registered voters nationwide, with a very narrow lead in the “blue wall” states, including a tied race in Wisconsin.
One possibility is that the polls were just as poor in October 2019 as in October 2020. If so, Trump actually held a clear lead during the winter. Maybe. Another possibility is that the polls got worse over the last year. And something really big did happen in American life over that time: the coronavirus pandemic.
“The basic story is that after lockdown, Democrats just started taking surveys, because they were locked at home and didn’t have anything else to do,” said David Shor, a Democratic pollster who worked for the Obama campaign in 2012. “Nearly all of the national polling error can be explained by the post-COVID jump in response rates among Dems."
Circumstantial evidence is consistent with that theory. We know that the virus had an effect on the polls: Pollsters giddily reported an increase in response rates. High-powered studies showed Biden gaining in coronavirus hot spots, seeming to confirm the assumption that the pandemic was hurting the president.
But if Shor is right, the studies weren’t showing a shift in the attitudes of voters in hot spots; rather, it was a shift in the tendency for supporters of Biden to respond to surveys.
Adding to the intrigue: There is no evidence that the president fared worse in coronavirus hot spots, contrary to the expectations of pundits or studies. Instead, Trump fared slightly better in places with high coronavirus cases than in places with lower coronavirus cases, controlling for demographics, based on the preliminary results by county so far. This is most obviously true in Wisconsin, one of the nation’s current hot spots and the battleground state where the polls underestimated Trump the most. The final polls in Wisconsin — including the final Times/Siena poll — showed Biden gaining in the state, even as polls elsewhere showed Trump making gains.
Don’t Forget the Hispanic Vote
There’s one state in particular where the polls were much worse in 2020 than in 2016: Florida, where Trump made huge gains among Hispanic voters.
What happened in Miami-Dade County was stunning. Biden won by just 7 points in a county where Clinton won by 29 points. No pollster saw the extent of it coming, not even those conducting polls of Miami-Dade County or its competitive congressional districts.
Most polls probably weren’t even in the ballpark. The final Times/Siena poll of Florida showed Biden with a 55% to 33% lead among Hispanic voters. In the final account, Biden may barely win the Hispanic vote in the state.
What happened in Miami-Dade was not just about Cuban-Americans. Although Democrats flipped a Senate seat and are leading the presidential race in Arizona, Trump made huge gains in many Hispanic communities, from the agricultural Imperial Valley and the border towns along the Rio Grande to more urban Houston or Philadelphia.
Many national surveys don’t release results for Hispanic voters because any given survey usually has only a small sample of the group. It will be some time until the major pollsters post their results to the Roper Center, a repository of detailed polling data. Then we’ll be able to dig in and see exactly what the national polls showed among this group.
But if the Florida polls are any indication, it’s at least possible that national surveys missed Trump’s strength among Hispanic voters. It seems entirely possible that the polls could have missed by 10 points among the group. If true, it would account for a modest but significant part — maybe one-fourth — of the national polling error.
These are the initial guesses. Other theories will emerge. In time, to the extent they can be, all of them will be put to the test. And then we’ll know more than we do now, and can revisit this question.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Polls & surveys; Presidents; Education; Voter behavior; Elections

Location: New York; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Epidemics; Crime, Law And Justice; Criminal Justice; Police; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Conflict, War And Peace; Economy, Business And Finance; Corporations; Age, Chronological; Medicine And Health; Presidential Elections (Us); Labor And Jobs; Social Conditions And Trends; Politics And Government; Elections; Wisconsin; United States; Philadelphia (Pa); Pennsylvania; North Carolina; New York State; Miami Dade County (Fla); Miami (Fla); Houston (Tex); Georgia; Florida; Cuba; Arizona; Senate; Republican Party; Msnbc; Global Strategy Group; Democratic Party; Trump, Donald J; Obama, Barack; Maddow, Rachel; Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Black People; Voting And Voters; George Floyd Protests (2020); Boards Of Directors; Organized Labor; Generation Z; Hispanic Americans; Elections, Senate; Elections, State Legislature; Elections, House Of Representatives; Race And Ethnicity; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Whites; States (Us); Voter Registration And Requirements; United States Politics And Government; Presidential Election Of 2016; Polls And Public Opinion

Title: What Went Wrong With Polling? Some Early Theories

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 10, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-10 @ 15:42

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2459028258

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/what-went-wrong-with-polling-some-early-theories/docview/2459028258/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 10, 2020

Last updated: 2022-09-06

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 15 of 34

Buffeted by Trump, China Has Little Hope for Warmer Relations With Biden

Author: Steven Lee Myers

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/buffeted-trump-china-has-little-hope-warmer/docview/2458784283/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=Buffeted+by+Trump%2C+China+Has+Little+Hope+for+Warmer+Relations+With+Biden&amp;aulast=Steven+Lee+Myers&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
All along China’s leaders publicly professed indifference to the U.S. presidential election, having concluded that no matter who won, the United States would remain irreconcilably opposed to the country’s rise.
The country’s top leader, Xi Jinping, has instead been pushing a strategy that would better insulate China from rising international risks, especially the antagonism of President Donald Trump.
China now faces a new administration that has vowed to be equally tough. While many will welcome the expected change in tone from the strident, at times racist statements by Trump and other officials, few expect President-elect Joe Biden to quickly reverse the confrontational policies his predecessor has put in place.
Without significant concessions by the Chinese government, which seem unlikely, the fundamental tensions between the two countries will fester. They could even become more pronounced — over trade, tech, Taiwan and other issues.
“Biden’s election will not fundamentally affect the core policies of Beijing’s leaders,” said Carl Minzner, a professor of Chinese law and politics at Fordham University in New York. Those policies, he added, “are being driven by the increasingly hard-line, one-man rule of Xi Jinping, and his desire to reassert party power throughout Chinese society.”
Since Biden was declared the winner, China’s official reaction has been relatively muted. Neither Xi nor other officials have extended public congratulations, awaiting Trump’s official concession, as a spokesman for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs suggested Monday.
While some Chinese officials have called on the United States to lower tensions by resuming unspecified negotiations, others are bracing for even greater challenges, particularly on the issues of technology and human rights. They fear that Biden, working in concert with allies in Europe and elsewhere, could prove more effective in confronting China’s growing economic and military might.
Biden, whose views on China have hardened since he was vice president in the Obama administration, appears determined to leave in place many of Trump’s harshest measures, including tariffs and restrictions on Chinese technology. On the campaign trail, he called Xi “a thug” and vowed he would more forcefully address human rights violations, including mass detentions and forced labor in the western region of Xinjiang.
Yang Yi, a retired Chinese admiral and former director of the Strategic Study Institute at China’s National Defense University whose views reflect the mainstream thinking of the military, warned before the election that “Chinese-American relations are at a very dangerous juncture.” He pointedly cited the complacent view in Europe before World War I that continentwide conflict was unthinkable.
“It is very difficult for both countries to step back from their fixed strategic objectives,” Yang wrote in The Global Times, the nationalist state-controlled newspaper. “In the post-pandemic era, the structural tensions between China and the United States are even sharper, and it will be very hard for ‘technical measures’ to resolve or ease them.”
Even as the American campaign unfolded, Xi’s China flexed its military and political muscle across the region, calculating that the United States could or would do little in response.
It clashed with India over their disputed border in the Himalayas, cracked down on promised freedoms in Hong Kong and, most recently, targeted Australia with restrictions on exports of wine, lobster and coal. It has also responded to each punitive step by Trump with measures of its own, barring travel by administration officials and lawmakers, imposing sanctions on companies and expelling American journalists.
Much remains uncertain, including Trump’s actions toward China in the remaining weeks of his presidency. Biden has offered relatively few concrete proposals for dealing with China. In his victory speech, Biden said little about foreign policy, making clear that his first priority would be fighting the coronavirus pandemic at home. It could be months into 2021 before he turns his full attention to America’s most vexing geopolitical relationship.
Biden’s victory has raised hopes in some quarters that the two countries could resume cooperation on at least some issues, especially climate change and nuclear proliferation by North Korea and Iran. Germany’s foreign minister, Heiko Maas, appealed for exactly that in a congratulatory message to Biden on Twitter, citing the pandemic and climate change.
He also said Germany would approach the new administration with policy proposals for dealing with “actors like China,” signaling the hardening of views in Europe that have become increasingly worrisome for some in Beijing.
Cliff Kupchan, chairman of the Eurasia Group in Washington, said the Chinese would welcome the “breathing space” to defuse tensions. That also gives them more time to build their own strength, economically and militarily.
“They are getting more and more concerned about a crisis with America,” he said. “They still know they are weaker.”
Chinese officials repeatedly claimed they had no favorite in the race, calling the election an internal matter for the Americans to decide. The outcome, though, might be the best thing the Communist Party’s leadership could have wanted.
The election resulted in the defeat of a president who has pushed U.S.-China relations to their lowest point since the 1970s. It also reflected a political process that few anywhere would hold up as a model of effective, democratic leadership in a time of myriad crises.
The American failures in slowing the coronavirus outbreak — as well as the protests this year over police brutality and racism — have been a theme of Chinese propaganda ever since the country brought its own infections under control.
“The unchecked spread of the virus and continuing political tumult in the United States have reinforced Beijing’s view that the United States is in decline,” said Jessica Chen Weiss, a professor of government at Cornell University.
“So even as the Chinese leadership sees abundant domestic and international risks,” she added, “it is becoming more confident in its efforts to resist international pressure on issues that are core to its domestic legitimacy and regime security.”
Xi has used China’s success in fighting the pandemic to press a political and economic agenda to make the country less dependent on the rest of the world in crucial fields, including technology.
On the eve of the election, the Communist Party’s main journal, Qiushi, or “Seeking Truth,” published a speech Xi delivered in April outlining his strategy. He said China should enhance its dominance of industrial supply chains as a potential weapon to strike back against protectionist threats from abroad.
As the United States now moves into a likely turbulent transition, Xi is marching ahead with a new five-year plan that will guide policy starting in 2021. An outline — released, coincidentally, on Election Day in the United States — carries the stamp of Xi, who reinforced his gloomy prognosis of the global pressures at an important party gathering last month.
At the same meeting, Xi was hailed as “the core navigator and helmsman,” a title that echoes the one bestowed on Mao Zedong. He showed no sign of designating a successor that could pave the way to his retirement. With a likely third term beginning in 2022, he stands to be in power well past the next presidential election in 2024 — and possibly another after that.
“Right now, China feels like a different planet,” said Rodney Jones, an economist at Wigram Capital Advisors who closely tracks China. “And that is exactly how Xi Jinping wants it.”
The Chinese government seemed eager to play down the election — perhaps to avoid emphasizing the democratic process for a population that has no role in choosing its leaders.
Coverage of the prolonged ballot counting was sparing, with election news relegated to the end of the nightly newscast. As Biden’s victory was called Sunday morning, all of China’s state media flashed news alerts — about Xi’s instructions, issued several days ago, for a railroad connecting Sichuan province to Tibet.
Propaganda aside, ordinary Chinese were not indifferent to the outcome. Both candidates were among the most searched topics on Chinese social media.
Students who hoped to study in the United States also had a special stake in the race: their visas, which the Trump administration has severely restricted.
“Although Biden will also be tougher toward China when he comes to power, his policy on international students may be relaxed,” said Nathan Cao, a college junior in Shandong province who hopes to study abroad.
A popular noodle shop in Beijing that Biden visited as vice president in 2011 was more crowded than usual after his victory.
“I saw news articles saying Biden is a good father and really likes his family,” said Sunny Gao, 55, who went Sunday and Monday, ordering the same noodles with black soybean paste that Biden tried. “I hope he will be a little good to China.”
Chris Buckley contributed reporting from Sydney, and Keith Bradsher from Beijing. Claire Fu and Albee Zhang contributed research from Beijing, and Coral Yang from Shanghai.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Study abroad; Political leadership; Pandemics; Political parties; Political campaigns; Propaganda; Asian Americans; Presidential elections; Coronaviruses; Human rights; COVID-19

Location: Beijing China; United States--US; New York; Germany; China; Europe

People: Xi Jinping; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Identifier / keyword: World; Environment; Epidemics; Science And Technology; Computers And The Internet; Asian Americans; Presidential Elections (Us); Medicine And Health; Economy, Business And Finance; Education; Teachers And School Employees; Travel And Vaca tions; Conflict, War And Peace; War And Revolution; Social Conditions And Trends; Race And Ethnicity; Politics And Government; Crime, Law And Justice; Criminal Justice; Police; Xinjiang (China); United States; Tibet; Taiwan; Sydney (Australia); Shanghai (China); Shandong Province (China); North Korea; Iran; India; Hong Kong; Himalayas; Germany; Europe; China; Australia; Twitter; Qiushi; National Defense University; Global Times; Fordham University; Cornell University; Communist Party Of China; Xi Jinping; Trump, Donald J; Obama, Barack; Myers, Steven Lee; Minzner, Carl; Mao Zedong; Maas, Heiko (1966 ); Bradsher, Keith; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Social Media; Black People; Discrimination; Human Rights And Human Rights Violations; World War I (1914 18); Customs (Tariff); International Study And Teaching; Global Warming; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Immigration And Emigration; Speeches And Statements; Protectionism (Trade); Black Lives Matter Moveme nt; George Floyd Protests (2020); International Relations; Colleges And Universities; Travel Warnings; Presidential Election Of 2024; Appointments And Executive Changes; United States Defense And Military Forces; Forced Labor; Embargoes And Sanctions; Propaganda; Territorial Disputes; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); International Trade And World Market; Disease Rates; United States Politics And Government; Economic Conditions And Trends; Defense And Military Forces; Elections; United States International Relations

Title: Buffeted by Trump, China Has Little Hope for Warmer Relations With Biden

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 9, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-09 @ 15:21

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2458784283

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/buffeted-trump-china-has-little-hope-warmer/docview/2458784283/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 9, 2020

Last updated: 2020-11-10

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 16 of 34

‘It’s Such a Relief’: Biden Voters Rebuild a Wall That Trump Smashed

Author: Goldmacher, Shane; Corasaniti, Nick; Trip Gabriel

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/s-such-relief-biden-voters-rebuild-wall-that/docview/2458422461/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=%E2%80%98It%E2%80%99s+Such+a+Relief%E2%80%99%3A+Biden+Voters+Rebuild+a+Wall+That+Trump+Smashed&amp;aulast=Goldmacher%2C+Shane%3BCorasaniti%2C+Nick%3BTrip+Gabriel&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
AMBLER, Pa. — Kristyn LaBarge was on a walk when she found out, not from a smartphone alert or a call from a friend but from the loud banging of pots that something significant had happened — that Joe Biden had made Donald Trump a one-term president.
From San Francisco to New York to Washington, D.C., big Democratic cities were erupting with spontaneous street parties of singing, honking and dancing Saturday. But in Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin, which catapulted Trump to the presidency in 2016 and which Biden had just reclaimed, the celebrations seemed particularly sweet and personal. That was especially true in the leafy suburbs of Philadelphia, where huge Democratic margins had tipped the state that tipped the election.
“It was one of the most phenomenal moments of our lives,” said LaBarge, a 48-year-old mother of two boys and two girls. She rushed home to find that her son was already blasting the national anthem. In this most bitter of election’s wake, hearing Biden’s calming tone this past week, she said, “was like this sweet music washing over me.”
“It just feels like,” she said, pausing and redirecting. “It’s such a relief.”
For Democrats, it has been an exhausting four years of Trump and tumult and tweets. Of travel bans and family separations. Of harsh words for Black leaders in the United States and warm ones for autocrats abroad. Of not one, not two, but three Supreme Court appointments. Of impeachment and acquittal.
And now, release and restoration.
In a year defined by the pandemic and its wrenching losses, many Democrats feel they just won something back: integrity in American democracy, pride in their country’s next leader and, more parochially, the “blue wall” of political power that the party long enjoyed in these three states. As defenders of free and fair elections urged the counting of every vote, voters in these three states knew it would be their ballots that carried the most weight.
When the news broke, Michael Jeske stepped into his yard in suburban Milwaukee and blasted a conch shell. Bjorn Hansen, a Republican in Kent County, Michigan, who voted for Biden, received a text from Europe and pumped his fist. And Derrick McConnell of Detroit jumped up and shouted, “Thank you, Jesus!”
They cried. They danced. They smiled through masks. Many hugged.
“COVID be damned,” said Alison Duncan, who lives in a suburb of Pittsburgh.
She was wearing torn pajamas when her neighbor came by in sweaty gym clothes. They embraced anyway.
“It was beautiful,” she said.
Some people simply felt it was easier to breathe. The Trump era began for many Democrats with a sense of defeat and dread. It got worse: Charlottesville, the images of children in cages, the attacks on female members of Congress and women in power. And then it was about surviving the worst pandemic in a century, which triggered anxiety among Democrats that Trump was not taking the health risks seriously enough.
On Saturday, a new calm set in.
“I don’t think I need the Wellbutrin anymore — no more antidepressant for me,” said Ruth Briggs, 65, who was skipping down Arch Street in Philadelphia. “Four years of depression, just four years. It’s been horrible. And it’s lifted.”
In his first address to the nation as president-elect, Biden admitted his surprise at the spontaneous celebrations in the streets, which he called “an outpouring of joy, of hope, of renewed faith that tomorrow will bring a better day.”
An unseasonably warm day across much of the industrial Midwest and Pennsylvania, with bright sun and temperatures climbing into the 70s, only added to the sense of euphoria. People poured into the streets of downtown Philadelphia, the birthplace of American democracy and a city not known to not take credit (“Gritty Did It” read a homemade sign paying homage to the city’s, well, unique hockey mascot). They celebrated reclaiming a system of government that they believed had been fundamentally at risk.
“It felt like every half of every ’80s movie where the bullies are just winning and winning and winning, and you just don’t know if the world was the way you thought it was when you were a kid,” said Tom O’Connell, who, with his wife and three children, was among those downtown. “But it’s the second half now.”
If Biden were to carry the last two uncalled states where he is now leading, Georgia and Arizona, he would win 306 Electoral College votes — the same number that Trump carried in 2016, which the president has long characterized as a “landslide.”
Still, the 2020 election results tell a more complicated story for Democrats than a simplified Hollywood script. Trump lost, but Republicans gained seats in the House and kept control of the Senate for now with runoff elections looming for two Senate seats in Georgia. And Democratic hopes to make gains in statehouses were mostly dashed. The margins were razor-thin even preelection, although some polls had Democrats dreaming (Texas! Ohio! Iowa!) of an emphatic repudiation of Trumpism that did not arrive.
“Dance to your demise,” warned a sign held at a gathering of Trump supporters in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. Similar pro-Trump demonstrators counterprogrammed Democratic celebrations in the capitals of Lansing, Michigan, and Madison, Wisconsin, a reminder of how divided the nation remains.
In Detroit, Hasan Beydoun, the owner of the Rafic’s On the Go food truck, said he was happy to contribute in a small way to the party with free cartons of chicken tenders, falafel and french fries, handed out to a hungry crowd of several hundred people.
Among them was Bruce Fealk, 67, who, at protests for the past four years, has been wearing a prison jumpsuit topped by a gigantic papier-mâche head made to resemble a snarling Trump. Now he is planning a retirement ceremony for the 10-pound prop.
“On Jan. 20, no matter how cold it is, in the middle of a snowstorm, we’re going to have some kind of celebration,” said Fealk, who lives in the Detroit suburb of Rochester Hills. “And I’d like to burn it, in a bonfire would be good — maybe with some marshmallows.”
If defeat is an orphan, then Biden’s victory has many parents. Black voters in cities. College towns that turned out. Progressive enclaves that voted en masse. White suburban women who rejected Trump. White blue-collar workers who voted, even just ever so slightly, in greater numbers for Biden than they did for Hillary Clinton.
In Pennsylvania, the four suburban counties that ring Philadelphia netted Biden about 94,000 more votes than Trump, compared with Trump’s numbers against Clinton four years ago — enough to offset Trump’s entire margin of victory in 2016 and to account for his full deficit when the race was called in 2020.
“There is enough of us here to be the country others in the world believed we were before,” Julie Strauss, 65, who lives in Montgomery County, part of that suburban ring, said as she shopped at the local cooperative.
She was heartened that the leaders of France and Canada had quickly weighed in to congratulate Biden.
Of the Trump era, she reflected, “It’s disheartening to have discovered in this process it wasn’t the America I thought it was.”
But Saturday, the nation made history as Sen. Kamala Harris became the first woman and the first person of color to ascend to the vice presidency.
In a mostly Black area of North Philadelphia, Trevor Lewis, a 51-year-old construction contractor, voted for the first time this year. He wasn’t happy with Biden because of his past support for laws that imposed harsh sentences for minor crimes. But he came out to vote against Trump.
“When you’re Black, you know when somebody’s being racist,” he said. “He’s inciting groups like the Proud Boys and QAnon. Trump is a big kid with an ant farm and a magnifying glass, and we’re the ants.”
Balanced in the vote against the president, a uniquely energizing force, were voters who saw in Biden a sense of decency that they felt had been abandoned in White House.
“Thank God, America will be for the good of the people once again,’’ said Linda Gorski-Slear, 69, a retired dental hygienist in Washburn County, Wisconsin.
She said having a leader who would address the pandemic was urgent.
“Biden cares about the people, not just going to the golf course on the weekend,’’ she said.
As it happened, when the race was called Saturday, Trump was at his golf club in Northern Virginia, exactly the kind of suburban area his embracing of white grievance politics and cultural division has turned deeper blue. “Good riddance,” read one sign his motorcade passed.
In Ambler, Pennsylvania, Gina Donato, 46, said she had been crying a lot — first when Pennsylvania flipped and again when the presidential race was called. She had cried when Trump won, too, and it all felt just like things had come full circle.
“It was such a release,” she said. “Oh my God, this is the first time I’ve had hope in four years.”
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Election results; Presidential elections; Democracy; Pandemics; Suburban areas

Location: Pennsylvania; Wisconsin; New York; Michigan; Detroit Michigan; Georgia

People: Biden, Joseph R Jr

Company / organization: Name: Senate; NAICS: 921120

Identifier / keyword: Medicine And Health; Epidemics; Police; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Gender; Crime, Law And Justice; Criminal Justice; Crime And Criminals; Prisons And Prisoners; Marriages; Food; Conflict, War And Peace; Presidential Elections (Us); Labor And Jobs; Science And Technology; Psychology And Psychologists; Emotions; Travel And Vacations; Athletics And Sports; Social Conditions And Trends; Arts, Culture And Entertainment; Culture (Arts); Music; Elections; Wisconsin; United States; Texas; San Francisco (Calif); Rochester Hills (Mich); Pittsburgh (Pa); Philadelphia (Pa); Pennsylvania; Ohio; New York State; Montgomery County (Pa); Milwaukee (Wis); Michigan; Madison (Wis); Kent (Ohio); Iowa; Harrisburg (Pa); Georgia; France; Europe; Detroit (Mich); Charlottesville (Va); Canada; Arizona; Supreme Court (Us); Senate; House Of Representatives; Democratic Party; Trump, Donald J; O'connell, Thomas S Jro'connell, Tom; Harris, Kamala D; Gabriel, Trip; Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Vice Presidents And Vice Presidency (Us); Impeachment; National Anthems; Food Trucks And Vendors; Prison Guards And Corrections Officers; Weddings And Engagements; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Golf; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Depression (Mental); Organized Labor; Travel Warnings; Women And Girls; Suburbs; Elections, State Legislature; George Floyd Protests (2020); Elections, Senate; Race And Ethnicity; Elections, House Of Representatives; Voting And Voters; States (Us); Presidential Election Of 2016; Politics And Government; Black People; Polls And Public Opinion; United States Politics And Government

Title: ‘It’s Such a Relief’: Biden Voters Rebuild a Wall That Trump Smashed

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 8, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-08 @ 15:10

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2458422461

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/s-such-relief-biden-voters-rebuild-wall-that/docview/2458422461/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 8, 2020

Last updated: 2020-11-09

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 17 of 34

As Hong Kong Law Goes After ‘Black Sheep,’ Fear Clouds Universities

Author: Wang, Vivian

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-hong-kong-law-goes-after-black-sheep-fear/docview/2458334685/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=As+Hong+Kong+Law+Goes+After+%E2%80%98Black+Sheep%2C%E2%80%99+Fear+Clouds+Universities&amp;aulast=Wang%2C+Vivian&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
HONG KONG — When Harry Wu, a professor of medical humanities at the University of Hong Kong, gave a lesson last fall about doctors’ responsibilities in society, he focused on a real-world example: the volunteer medics treating protesters and police in the anti-government demonstrations convulsing the city.
But this semester, after China imposed a new national security law on Hong Kong, Wu hastily reworked his lesson plan. He included photographs of the protests in his lecture slides, but did not explicitly address them. Before uploading the slides to a university portal after class, he deleted the photographs altogether.
“It’s right in front of your eyes, but you don’t have any opportunity to talk about this in class,” he said.
As China tries to quell the political upheaval in Hong Kong, the city’s universities — ranked among the best in Asia, if not the world — have become potent symbols of the shrinking space for dissent or even discussion.
Politically active professors have been fired or denied contracts, in what they call retribution for their criticism of the government. Students are requesting more secure platforms for submitting assignments. Scholars are reconsidering whether Hong Kong is a viable home for their careers.
Even seemingly politically neutral fields, like medicine, have become potential minefields. Wu plans to move to Taiwan next year.
The new law, which gives Beijing the broad power to crack down on political dissent, has even altered universities’ physical landscapes.
The University of Hong Kong recently dismantled a wall of protest posters that students erected last summer. At the Chinese University of Hong Kong, a thicket of barbed wire now envelops a bridge where clashes had erupted between students and police.
Government officials have been open about their intent to subdue the once-freewheeling campuses, even as they insist that academic freedom remains intact. Hong Kong’s chief executive, Carrie Lam, said last month that the city’s education secretary would meet with university presidents to discuss how they would roll out the law at their institutions.
“If they no longer have the ability to meet the requirements, then law enforcement of course will have to go in and resolve it,” she said.
The scrutiny is part of a wider campaign to control education. The Education Bureau has offered to review textbooks, and last month it stripped a primary schoolteacher of his teaching credentials for discussing Hong Kong independence. Beijing’s top official in Hong Kong has called on the government to bolster “patriotic education.”
The impact on universities could be particularly important to the government given their historical role as incubators of social movements.
Student unions led the monthslong pro-democracy protests in 2014 known as Occupy Central. The idea of occupying Central, the city’s business district, was proposed by a University of Hong Kong law professor, Benny Tai, who was fired for his involvement in that movement this July.
Students were also among the most devoted protesters during last year’s demonstrations, which were sparked by a now abandoned bill that would have allowed extraditions to mainland China. Two of the most violent confrontations between protesters and police unfolded on college campuses, including a two-week siege at Hong Kong Polytechnic University.
Academics are increasingly worried about Beijing’s influence.
Even before this year, professors who supported democracy were denied promotion. In late 2019, the government retracted $200 million in funding for three universities, which one of the schools’ leaders said was retribution for student involvement in the protests.
The security law, enacted this summer, specifically orders the government to increase supervision over universities. Lam has promised to root out “black sheep” who “bring politics into the classroom.”
“The message is loud and clear that the government is watching what the universities are doing,” said Johannes Chan, the former dean of the University of Hong Kong law school.
The result is a pervasive air of suspicion. As some faculty and students feel increasingly observed, they themselves have turned a more distrustful eye on their institutions.
More than 4,000 people signed a petition last month opposing the University of Hong Kong’s selection of two professors from Tsinghua University in Beijing for top administrative posts, citing fears the appointments would erode academic independence. They pointed to a Tsinghua webpage that listed one of the nominees as a Communist Party member, which was scrubbed after media inquiries.
A University of Hong Kong official called the allegations unsubstantiated.
Some students were equally skeptical of the university’s decision to dismantle their protest wall. The university said it was done to ensure “traffic flow.” But Tracy Cheng, vice president of the university’s student union, said she thought the reason was fear of the law. Hong Kong’s pro-Beijing newspapers had written several articles describing the display as a violation of the law.
“We kind of understand that the university is afraid,” said Cheng, a third-year student. “But we still feel like this harms the freedom of speech.”
The Chinese University of Hong Kong has been explicit in its acceptance of the law. On Wednesday, the school released a statement denouncing promotional posters for a student-organized exhibit about the protests, accusing them of having “a biased description” of the events. The university “solemnly reminds students not to challenge the law,” it said.
The coronavirus pandemic has heightened the unease by forcing most classes to be held online. Some students and professors worry the format leaves them vulnerable to surveillance.
When Chow Po Chung, a professor of political philosophy at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, gave a recent online talk on the philosopher John Rawls’ book, “A Theory of Justice,” none of the several hundred attendees turned their cameras on. Many used false names.
A student asked if she could submit a paper to him directly, rather than uploading it to a portal used to detect plagiarism. She said she didn’t know if the portal was secure.
While he believed it was, he has concerns of his own. In previous years he has taught a class that explored the feasibility of secession, drawing on Quebec or Scotland. Now he wonders whether those conversations might be forbidden.
“Before, you thought of this as an academic discussion,” he said. “It didn’t have that kind of meaning.”
Outright censorship or punishment, tied to the law, remains rare. But the prospect is creating a climate of fear.
Many academics said the firing of Tai by the University of Hong Kong sent a warning. The school dismissed him over his conviction related to his leadership of the 2014 protests, even though the faculty senate recommended he be allowed to stay.
“When there’s a Benny Tai, you know they can do that again and again, until they have the situation they’d like to see,” said Stephen Chan, a professor of cultural studies at Lingnan University, adding that he was reexamining his syllabus for potentially sensitive material.
Ip Iam-Chong, who teaches in the same department, said administrators would proactively discourage staff from speaking out.
“Most people just want to keep the status quo,” said Ip, whose own tenure application was rejected this summer. The university never raised politics as a reason, but he believed that his criticisms influenced the decision; he founded InMedia HK, a forum for pro-democracy writing.
A spokeswoman for Lingnan said that all personnel decisions were based on academic merits.
The sensitivities can cut both ways in this highly polarized atmosphere. Some academics described fears of offending students with different political views.
Petula Ho, a professor of social work at the University of Hong Kong, said she found it difficult to offer critiques — even supportive ones — of the protest movement. She said students had castigated her for discouraging clashes with police.
Some professors have looked outside the classroom to teach more freely. Since being fired, Tai has begun hosting private talks on how to defend the rule of law.
“If you do not allow people to talk about these sensitive concepts in universities, in schools, then students will not just learn from schools and formal curriculums,” he said. “What we can do is to use social media, civil society, to continue the work.”
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

ERIC Subject: Campuses; Unions; Lesson Plans; Democracy; Textbooks; Computer Assisted Instruction; Police; Student Organizations; Medical Services; Credentials; Social Media; Freedom of Speech; Student Participation; Dissent; Government (Administrative Body); Educational Facilities; Universities; Academic Freedom; Law Enforcement; Social Work; Fear

Subject: Students; Fear & phobias; Schools; National security; Central business districts; Politics; College campuses; Censorship; Rule of law; Demonstrations & protests; Democracy; Education; Colleges & universities

Business indexing term: Subject: Central business districts Colleges & universities

Location: Beijing China; New York; China; United States--US; Hong Kong China

People: Tai, Benny

Company / organization: Name: University of Hong Kong; NAICS: 611310; Name: Chinese University of Hong Kong; NAICS: 611310

Identifier / keyword: World; Medicine And Health; Epidemics; Police; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Conflict, War And Peace; Animals; Seasons And Months; Type Of Material; Education; Science And Technology; Human Rights And Human Rights Violations; Social Conditions And Trends; Race And Ethnicity; Crime, Law And Justice; Criminal Justice; Crime And Criminals; Frauds And Swindling; Taiwan; Scotland; Quebec Province (Canada); Hong Kong; France; Far East, South And Southeast Asia And Pacific Areas; China; University Of Hong Kong; Tsinghua University; Occupy Central; New York Times; Hong Kong Polytechnic University; Getty Images; Communist Party Of China; Chinese University Of Hong Kong, The; Wu, Harry; Tai Yiu Ting, Benny; Rawls, John; Lam, Carrie (1957 ); Chan, Johannes M M; Plagiarism; Extradition; Censorship; Freedom Of Speech And Expression; Black People; Philosophy; Sheep; Academic Freedom; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Computers And The Internet; Content Type: Service; Summer (Season); Education (K 12); George Floyd Protests (2020); Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Hong Kong Protests (2019); Politics And Government; Secession And Independence Movements

Title: As Hong Kong Law Goes After ‘Black Sheep,’ Fear Clouds Un iversities

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 7, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-07 @ 15:22

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2458334685

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/as-hong-kong-law-goes-after-black-sheep-fear/docview/2458334685/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 7, 2020

Last updated: 2024-03-15

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 18 of 34

In a Year of Protest Cries, Now It’s ‘Count Every Vote!’ and ‘Stop the Steal!’

Author: Romero, Simon; Dewan, Shaila; Giulia McDonnell Nieto del Rio

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/year-protest-cries-now-s-count-every-vote-stop/docview/2457870600/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=In+a+Year+of+Protest+Cries%2C+Now+It%E2%80%99s+%E2%80%98Count+Every+Vote%21%E2%80%99+and+%E2%80%98Stop+the+Steal%21%E2%80%99&amp;aulast=Romero%2C+Simon%3BDewan%2C+Shaila%3BGiulia+McDonnell+Nieto+del+Rio&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
PHOENIX — In downtown Portland, Oregon, they shouted, “Count every vote!” At the Detroit convention center, they urged those tallying ballots to stop. And outside a Philadelphia vote-counting site, they said they just wanted to watch.
In a year defined by protests — for women’s rights and Black lives, against coronavirus lockdowns and police brutality — the presidential election brought even more demonstrators to the streets across America this week as days passed without a clear winner.
As former Vice President Joe Biden appeared to gain ground over President Donald Trump in the race to reach 270 electoral votes, protests broke out in hotly contested areas including Detroit, Philadelphia, Atlanta and Phoenix, where demonstrators said they were convinced the election was being stolen — a baseless claim that has circulated fiercely on social media, including on Trump's Twitter feed.
Protests also took place in areas where the results were settled, like New York, Portland, Washington and Miami, where the organizers — Latino Republican groups — offered a warning on a Facebook page called Stop the Steal: “They’re trying to steal this election from the President Donald J. Trump and we’re not going to let it happen.”
While sometimes tense — in Clark County, which includes Las Vegas, the registrar said he had requested extra security at the election headquarters — the protests attracted a modest turnout.
But the effort may be just ramping up: The Stop the Steal Facebook page, a public group started by Trump supporters, mushroomed to more than 360,000 members within hours before it was shut down by Facebook. It had been teeming with conspiracy theories and demands to halt the vote-counting process.
Trump has long been laying the groundwork for doubts about the election results, saying without evidence that mail-in ballots were fraudulent and that the election would be rigged. Several protesters spoke of “illegal votes” and said they simply did not believe that Biden could have won in their state.
Republicans have complained that observers have been kept too far from counters to inspect ballots and ensure accuracy. In Philadelphia, Trump surrogates won a minor victory when a state appellate court ordered that observers be allowed to watch from 6 feet away instead of the previous 20 feet at the main Philadelphia canvassing area. Counterprotesters outside danced and wore shirts that said “Count Every Vote.”
In Atlanta, some 60 people gathered downtown with signs that read “No cheating” and “Four more years.” Drivers in cars passing by held their horns down in support and waved flags out of their windows.
“We want every legal vote to be counted,” said Chandler Crump, 16, a high school student from Atlanta. “I feel amazing being here. There’s a lot of patriotic proud American energy here.”
Simone Michaud, a stay-at-home mother from Marietta, an Atlanta suburb, said she was there to “represent women of color and females in general,” adding, “we have one of the best presidents.”
In Phoenix, about 50 protesters hoisted Trump signs and chanted “Stop the steal” outside City Hall. Several in the crowd were openly carrying rifles and handguns as police officers looked on.
“I’m here to tell the left there’s no way in hell they’re taking my guns,” said Josh Dawl, 35, who had both a .22-caliber rifle and a Winchester Model 1894 rifle. “Trump supports our constitutional rights. Biden does not.”
The protest in Phoenix on Thursday came as election officials scrambled to finish counting ballots. It followed a demonstration Wednesday night that was convened by Mike Cernovich, a far-right blogger and YouTube personality. At that protest, armed right-wing demonstrators repeatedly threatened journalists, to the point where sheriff’s deputies moved television crews inside the Maricopa County Elections Center.
On Thursday, Dale Williams, 70, a retired real estate broker, said he showed up to voice opposition to what he described as a Democratic attempt to steal the election, a claim that is not supported by facts.
“I absolutely believe Donald Trump won Arizona and won the country,” said Williams, who was carrying a concealed handgun that he brandished to a reporter. “We cannot let Democrats get away with fraud.”
Outside the convention center in Detroit, where absentee ballots were being counted, a lone Black Lives Matter protester took a knee in the street, blocking an SUV that was decked out in Trump flags and towing a human-sized Statue of Liberty, with a sign that said, “Build the wall.”
The kneeler, Angelo Austin, who wore a mask that said “Detroit,” exchanged heated words with the demonstrators and blocked the SUV until the police asked him to move.
“We’re still fighting to breathe,” he said, yelling at the group while some Trump supporters called him racist and raised their voices, telling him: “It’s not about race.”
Austin, who is Black, scoffed. “My grandparents helped build this city,” he said, adding that most of the people who showed up to contest the votes were from outside of Detroit.
Many at the rally said that as they watched the votes come in from Detroit on Wednesday — helping flip the state of Michigan to Biden — they increasingly thought election fraud had been committed.
“The MAGA army is not going to let our vote, democracy, be stolen,” said Mark Conway, 61, who had driven from Macomb County on Wednesday after hearing on the radio that Republican poll watchers were needed.
He stayed at the center for several hours before leaving and returning with his son, only to be told that he could not re-enter. “They said that because of COVID, the capacity was reached,” he said.
Entry was “temporarily frozen” with more than 550 election challengers, half of them Republicans, already inside the center, a city official said.
Conway remained outside until about 9 p.m. Wednesday. After dark, the challengers demanded that the poll workers stop counting the votes, and sporadic chants of “Let us in” broke out.
Conway returned Thursday morning to continue to support Trump. “We want every legal vote counted, and I believe that he got more legal votes than anybody has ever gotten,” Conway said, adding that the shift in Biden’s favor overnight, as more votes were counted, wasn’t “credible.”
“The polls were fake, the news was fake, the votes are fake, and the candidate is fake,” he said.
Becky De Nooy came to the rally from Grand Rapids with her daughter, Emma, and said she, too, was distrustful of what she viewed as a surge of ballots suddenly showing up for Democrats.
“That should be suggesting that there’s something amiss,” De Nooy, 49, said. Her daughter added: “Not having a fair election, we cease to be a democratic republic.”
Across the country, there were also people who took to the streets out of alarm for Trump’s claim of victory before the votes had been counted.
In Washington, there were newly installed concrete vehicle barriers at the Black Lives Matter plaza near the White House, signaling that the city was preparing for larger crowds in an area where demonstrators have been watching results trickle in on a large screen.
A brief standoff broke out Thursday afternoon outside of the Republican National Committee headquarters between dozens of Trump supporters and a small group chanting “Black lives matter.”
As the police set up a barricade, the president’s supporters responded by yelling “Legal votes matter,” “All lives matter” and “Does your life matter?”
Flor Cerrato, an accountant from Los Angeles in a pink Trump cap and red Trump mask, said she came to the protest because she believed that the president had “already won by landslide.”
“Why don’t they just let it go,” she said while holding a “Latinos-Americans 4 Trump” sign. “They’re trying to switch the numbers around.”
Republican leaders appeared at some protests reviving oft-used claims of irregularities that have in the past been debunked or shown to be greatly exaggerated. Outside a nondescript warehouse in North Las Vegas where most of the uncounted votes in Clark County remain, they erected a podium in the street.
Broadcasting on a hastily announced livestream, the former Nevada attorney general, Adam Laxalt, said Republicans had filed a lawsuit after discovering evidence of dead people and out-of-state voters illegally casting ballots in Nevada — but he did not provide any specifics to support those claims.
“We’re asking the judge to, due to all of these irregularities, to stop the counting of improper votes,” he said.
Laxalt was joined by Matt Schlapp, chairman of the American Conservative Union, and Ric Grenell, former acting director of national intelligence.
Dozens of flag-waving Trump supporters looked on, and trucks with Trump flags circled the block, some gunning their engines and honking their horns.
Grenell refused to answer questions, telling reporters, “Listen, you are here to take in information.” As reporters shouted questions, the speakers got into a van and drove away.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Election results; Convention centers; Presidential elections; Demonstrations & protests; Social networks; Fraud; Black Lives Matter movement

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: Nevada; New York; Las Vegas Nevada; Detroit Michigan; Atlanta Georgia; United States--US

People: Trump, Donald J

Identifier / keyword: United States; Buildings (Structures); Law And Legislation; Civil Rights And Liberties; Elections; Voting And Voters; Gender; Conflict, War And Peace; Arts, Culture And Entertainment; Culture (Arts); Presidential Elections (Us); Transportation; Politics And Government; Crime And Criminals; Science And Technology; Economy, Business And Finance; Media; Social Conditions And Trends; Crime, Law And Justice; Criminal Justice; Police; Phoenix (Ariz); Philadelphia (Pa); New York State; New York City; Nevada; Michigan; Miami (Fla); Maricopa County (Ariz); Macomb County (Mich); Las Vegas (Nev); Grand Rapids (Mich); Detroit (Mich); Clark County (Nev); Atlanta (Ga); Arizona; Albany (Ny); Twitter; Facebook Inc; YoutubeCom; Union Station; State Farm Insurance Cos; Republican Party; Office Of The Director Of National Intelligence; New York Times; House Of Representatives; Democratic Party; American Conservative, The (Magazine); Trump, Donald J; Schlapp, Matt (1967 ); Romero, Simon; Macfarquhar, Neil; Dewan, Shaila K; Cernovich, Mike; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Women And Girls; Espionage And Intelligence Services; State Legislatures; Television; News And News Media; Social Media; Computers And The Internet; Firearms; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Women's Rights; Newspapers; Race And Ethnicity; Black Lives Matter Movement; Polls And Public Opinion; Black People; Absentee Voting; United States Politics And Government; Voter Fraud (Election Fraud); George Floyd Protests (2020); Demonstrations, Protests And Riots

Title: In a Year of Protest Cries, Now It’s ‘Count Every Vote!’ and ‘Stop the Steal!’

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 6, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-06 @ 02:32

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2457870600

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/year-protest-cries-now-s-count-every-vote-stop/docview/2457870600/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 6, 2020

Last updated: 2021-10-04

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 19 of 34

In a Year of Protest Cries, Now It’s ‘Count Every Vote!’ and ‘Stop the Steal!’

Author: Romero, Simon; Dewan, Shaila; Giulia McDonnell Nieto del Rio

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/year-protest-cries-now-s-count-every-vote-stop/docview/2457776001/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=In+a+Year+of+Protest+Cries%2C+Now+It%E2%80%99s+%E2%80%98Count+Every+Vote%21%E2%80%99+and+%E2%80%98Stop+the+Steal%21%E2%80%99&amp;aulast=Romero%2C+Simon%3BDewan%2C+Shaila%3BGiulia+McDonnell+Nieto+del+Rio&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
PHOENIX — In downtown Portland, Oregon, they shouted, “Count every vote!” At the Detroit convention center, they urged those tallying ballots to stop. And outside a Philadelphia vote-counting site, they said they just wanted to watch.
In a year defined by protests — for women’s rights and Black lives, against coronavirus lockdowns and police brutality — the presidential election brought even more demonstrators to the streets across America this week as days passed without a clear winner.
As former Vice President Joe Biden appeared to gain ground over President Donald Trump in the race to reach 270 electoral votes, protests broke out in hotly contested areas including Detroit, Philadelphia, Atlanta and Phoenix, where demonstrators said they were convinced the election was being stolen — a baseless claim that has circulated fiercely on social media, including on Trump's Twitter feed.
Protests also took place in areas where the results were settled, like New York, Portland, Washington and Miami, where the organizers — Latino Republican groups — offered a warning on a Facebook page called Stop the Steal: “They’re trying to steal this election from the President Donald J. Trump and we’re not going to let it happen.”
While sometimes tense — in Clark County, which includes Las Vegas, the registrar said he had requested extra security at the election headquarters — the protests attracted a modest turnout and by Thursday evening had led to no violent episodes.
But the effort may be just ramping up: The Stop the Steal Facebook page, a public group started by Trump supporters, mushroomed to more than 360,000 members within hours before it was shut down by Facebook. It had been teeming with conspiracy theories and demands to halt the vote-counting process.
Trump has long been laying the groundwork for doubts about the election results, saying without evidence that mail-in ballots were fraudulent and that the election would be rigged. Several protesters spoke of “illegal votes” and said they simply didn’t believe that Biden could have won in their state.
Republicans have complained that observers have been kept too far from counters to inspect ballots and ensure accuracy. In Philadelphia, Trump surrogates won a minor victory when a state appellate court ordered that observers be allowed to watch from 6 feet away instead of the previous 20 feet at the main Philadelphia canvassing area. Counterprotesters outside danced and wore shirts that said “Count Every Vote.”
In Atlanta, some 60 people gathered downtown with signs that read “No cheating” and “Four more years.” Drivers in cars passing by held their horns down in support and waved flags out of their windows.
“We want every legal vote to be counted,” said Chandler Crump, 16, a high school student from Atlanta. “I feel amazing being here. There’s a lot of patriotic proud American energy here.”
Simone Michaud, a stay-at-home mother from Marietta, an Atlanta suburb, said she was there to “represent women of color and females in general,” adding, “we have one of the best presidents.”
In Phoenix, about 50 protesters hoisted Trump signs and chanted “Stop the steal” outside City Hall. Several in the crowd were openly carrying rifles and handguns as police officers looked on.
“I’m here to tell the left there’s no way in hell they’re taking my guns,” said Josh Dawl, 35, who had both a .22-caliber rifle and a Winchester Model 1894 rifle. “Trump supports our constitutional rights. Biden does not.”
The protest in Phoenix on Thursday came as election officials scrambled to finish counting ballots. It followed a demonstration Wednesday night that was convened by Mike Cernovich, a far-right blogger and YouTube personality. At that protest, armed right-wing demonstrators repeatedly threatened journalists, to the point where sheriff’s deputies moved television crews inside the Maricopa County Elections Center.
On Thursday, Dale Williams, 70, a retired real estate broker, said he showed up to voice opposition to what he described as a Democratic attempt to steal the election, a claim that is not supported by facts.
“I absolutely believe Donald Trump won Arizona and won the country,” said Williams, who was carrying a concealed handgun that he brandished to a reporter. “We cannot let Democrats get away with fraud.”
Outside the convention center in Detroit, where absentee ballots were being counted, a lone Black Lives Matter protester took a knee in the street, blocking an SUV that was decked out in Trump flags and towing a human-sized Statue of Liberty, with a sign that said, “Build the wall.”
The kneeler, Angelo Austin, who wore a mask that said “Detroit,” exchanged heated words with the demonstrators and blocked the SUV until the police asked him to move.
“We’re still fighting to breathe,” he said, yelling at the group while some Trump supporters called him racist and raised their voices, telling him: “It’s not about race.”
Austin, who is Black, scoffed. “My grandparents helped build this city,” he said, adding that most of the people who showed up to contest the votes were from outside of Detroit.
Many at the rally said that as they watched the votes come in from Detroit on Wednesday — helping flip the state of Michigan to Biden — they increasingly thought election fraud had been committed.
“The MAGA army is not going to let our vote, democracy, be stolen,” said Mark Conway, 61, who had driven from Macomb County on Wednesday after hearing on the radio that Republican poll watchers were needed.
He stayed at the center for several hours before leaving and returning with his son, only to be told that he could not re-enter. “They said that because of COVID, the capacity was reached,” he said. Entry was “temporarily frozen” with more than 550 election challengers, including 225 Republicans, already inside the center, a city official said.
Conway remained outside until about 9 p.m. Wednesday. After dark, the challengers demanded that the poll workers stop counting the votes, and sporadic chants of “Let us in” broke out.
Conway returned Thursday morning to continue to support Trump. “We want every legal vote counted, and I believe that he got more legal votes than anybody has ever gotten,” Conway said, adding that the shift in Biden’s favor overnight, as more votes were counted, wasn’t “credible.”
“The polls were fake, the news was fake, the votes are fake, and the candidate is fake,” he said.
Becky De Nooy came to the rally from Grand Rapids with her daughter, Emma, and said she, too, was distrustful of what she viewed as a surge of ballots suddenly showing up for Democrats.
“That should be suggesting that there’s something amiss,” De Nooy, 49, said. Her daughter added: “Not having a fair election, we cease to be a democratic republic.”
Across the country, there were also people who took to the streets out of alarm for Trump’s claim of victory before the votes had been counted.
In Washington, people arrived at Black Lives Matter plaza near the White House to find newly installed concrete vehicle barriers, signaling that the city was preparing for larger crowds. But on Thursday, there seemed to be more members of the press gathered there than protesters.
Latisha Waters, 36, traveled from Albany, New York, hoping to celebrate a Biden win.
“We came out here in case they announced Biden, but it looks like they won’t,” she said. “I don’t know what to do. I’m anxious.”
Emily Smith, 31, traveled from Michigan.
“We just need to take the time we need to take to figure out who won the election,” she said. “Trump has shown he is not afraid to try and get away with anything.”
On Wednesday, dozens of marchers had gathered at Washington’s Union Station with signs saying “The people have spoken” and “You will not silence us.” The protest included calls for justice on broader issues including race, immigration and climate change.
Republican leaders appeared at some protests reviving oft-used claims of irregularities that have in the past been debunked or shown to be greatly exaggerated. Outside a nondescript warehouse in North Las Vegas where most of the uncounted votes in Clark County remain, they erected a podium in the street.
Broadcasting on a hastily announced livestream, the former Nevada attorney general, Adam Laxalt, said Republicans had filed a lawsuit after discovering evidence of dead people and out-of-state voters illegally casting ballots in Nevada — but he did not provide any specifics to support those claims.
“We’re asking the judge to, due to all of these irregularities, to stop the counting of improper votes,” he said.
Laxalt was joined by Matt Schlapp, chairman of the American Conservative Union, and Ric Grenell, former acting director of national intelligence.
Dozens of flag-waving Trump supporters looked on, and trucks with Trump flags circled the block, some gunning their engines and honking their horns.
Grenell refused to answer questions, telling reporters, “Listen, you are here to take in information.” As reporters shouted questions, the speakers got into a van and drove away.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Social networks; Election results; Convention centers; Presidential elections; Demonstrations & protests; Fraud; Black Lives Matter movement

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: New York; Detroit Michigan; Nevada; Michigan; Las Vegas Nevada; Atlanta Georgia; United States--US

People: Trump, Donald J

Identifier / keyword: United States; Buildings (Structures); Law And Legislation; Civil Rights And Liberties; Elections; Voting And Voters; Gender; Conflict, War And Peace; Arts, Culture And Entertainment; Culture (Arts); Presidential Elections (Us); Transportation; Politics And Government; Crime And Criminals; Science And Technology; Economy, Business And Finance; Media; Social Conditions And Trends; Crime, Law And Justice; Criminal Justice; Police; Phoenix (Ariz); Philadelphia (Pa); New York State; New York City; Nevada; Michigan; Miami (Fla); Maricopa County (Ariz); Macomb County (Mich); Las Vegas (Nev); Grand Rapids (Mich); Detroit (Mich); Clark County (Nev); Atlanta (Ga); Arizona; Albany (Ny); Twitter; Facebook Inc; YoutubeCom; Union Station; State Farm Insurance Cos; Republican Party; Office Of The Director Of National Intelligence; New York Times; House Of Representatives; Democratic Party; American Conservative, The (Magazine); Trump, Donald J; Schlapp, Matt (1967 ); Romero, Simon; Macfarquhar, Neil; Dewan, Shaila K; Cernovich, Mike; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Women And Girls; Espionage And Intelligence Services; State Legislatures; Television; News And News Media; Social Media; Computers And The Internet; Firearms; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Women's Rights; Newspapers; Race And Ethnicity; Black Lives Matter Movement; Polls And Public Opinion; Black People; Absentee Voting; United States Politics And Government; Voter Fraud (Election Fraud); George Floyd Protests (2020); Demonstrations, Protests And Riots

Title: In a Year of Protest Cries, Now It’s ‘Count Every Vote!’ and ‘Stop the Steal!’

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 20 20

Publication date: Nov 5, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-05 @ 20:23

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2457776001

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/year-protest-cries-now-s-count-every-vote-stop/docview/2457776001/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 5, 2020

Last updated: 2021-10-04

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 20 of 34

NYPD Anti-Harassment Official Accused of Racist Rants

Author: Rashbaum, William K; Feuer, Alan

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/nypd-anti-harassment-official-accused-racist/docview/2457737581/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=NYPD+Anti-Harassment+Official+Accused+of+Racist+Rants&amp;aulast=Rashbaum%2C+William+K%3BFeuer%2C+Alan&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
NEW YORK — For more than 20 years, an online chat board called the Rant has been the place where New York City police officers have gone in secret to complain about their jobs — not infrequently using blatantly racist and misogynistic language.
But even by the website’s vitriolic standards, scores of recent posts by a user who calls himself “Clouseau” have been especially disturbing.
Between the summer of 2019 and earlier this fall, “Clouseau” posted hundreds of messages on the Rant, many of which attacked Black people, Puerto Ricans, Hasidic Jews and others with an unbridled sense of animus.
He called the Bronx district attorney, Darcel D. Clark, who is Black, “a gap-toothed wildebeest” and referred to former President Barack Obama as a “Muslim savage.”
Now, city investigators say they have amassed evidence that “Clouseau” is a high-ranking police official. And not just any high-ranking official — the one assigned to an office responsible for combating workplace harassment in the Police Department.
The inquiry was conducted by the City Council’s Oversight and Investigations Division, which put together its findings in a 13-page draft report that was obtained by The New York Times. The division is overseen by Councilman Ritchie Torres.
The police official, Deputy Inspector James F. Kobel, adamantly denied that he had written the racist messages. The posts have been taken down since the Council began its inquiry, and the profile deleted.
“I am unfamiliar with any of these posts,” he said in a brief interview. “I’m unfamiliar with ‘Clouseau.’ I don’t post on the Rant.”
He declined to comment further.
After the Times asked the Police Department about the posts last month, its Internal Affairs Bureau opened an investigation.
Kobel denied the allegations to his superiors, a police official said. But on Thursday, he was relieved of his command of the Equal Employment Opportunity Division and placed on modified assignment pending completion of the department inquiry.
“This is abhorrent behavior,” Richard Esposito, deputy commissioner of public information, said about the messages. “Whoever wrote these posts has stained the reputation of the Police Department and its tens of thousands of honorable officers and civilians.”
Esposito noted that the investigation, which began three weeks ago, had not yet been completed and that substantial work remained to be done. But he said “the evidence at this stage points at the police executive,” referring to Kobel.
“Deputy Inspector Kobel has cooperated with the investigation,” he said, “but given the nature of the allegations and the sensitivity of his assignment, the decision has been made to remove him while the investigation proceeds.”
At the outset of the Internal Affairs inquiry, Kobel voluntarily provided investigators with his personal cellphone and computer, and they viewed the postings as not in keeping with his public persona and reputation, the police official said. The official spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss an open investigation.
That assessment echoed the appraisals of several current and former co-workers, who said in interviews with the Times that the inspector was quiet, low-key and strait-laced.
Police investigators considered the possibility that Kobel had been framed by someone who had purposely peppered the posts with details about his life — many, if not most, of which could be found through research on the internet.
But the inquiry turned up more evidence that pointed to Kobel, the police official said, including an email on his personal computer from the Rant message board that acknowledged his screen name was “Clouseau.”
Police investigators also found on his personal cellphone a copy of the digital photo the anonymous writer used on the message board as an avatar — a picture of the Peter Sellers character Inspector Clouseau from the film “The Pink Panther.”
Kobel, 50, has served in several senior positions on the force during his nearly 30-year career and oversees a unit responsible “for the prevention and investigation of employment and harassment claims,” according to its website.
Torres said his investigative team had compared posts from the Rant with public information and determined that Kobel and “Clouseau” share “a number of specific professional and personal characteristics.”
Torres said he was “as confident as I could be” that the two people were the same man because the commonalities were “too coincidental to be a coincidence.”
The head of the Captains Endowment Association, the union that represents Kobel, defended him in a statement, calling him “a dedicated professional” and suggesting that he had been framed by someone unhappy with the outcome of one of the thousands of internal harassment investigations he had conducted in recent years.
“Clearly, he has angered some people along the way,” said the union leader, Capt. Chris Monahan. “In any event, he looks forward to being fully exonerated when all the facts come out.”
The council’s interest in “Clouseau” began this summer, he said, when an investigator on Torres’ staff was casually scrolling through the Rant after seeing it mentioned in New York Magazine.
The posts by “Clouseau” caught the investigator’s attention because they were filled with “shocking invective,” Torres said. “Clouseau” had also publicly revealed substantial biographical details about himself, leaving a trail for the investigator to follow.
On July 1, 2019, for example, “Clouseau” left a message describing how he had joined the Police Department on June 30, 1992, recalling it as an “unbelievably hot” night. Using city payroll records, the investigator determined that Kobel had joined the force on that date.
In January, “Clouseau” wrote that he had once worked “in Housing” under “JJ,” whom he referred to with an obscenity often used to refer to women. According to Kobel’s LinkedIn page, he too served in the department’s Housing Bureau — from 2012 to 2014 at a time when it run by a female chief, Joanne Jaffe.
There was more.
On Oct. 29, 2019, “Clouseau” left a long post on the Rant recalling in detail how he had proposed to his wife on Dec. 10, 2005. Torres’ investigator later found a gossip article from the New York Post, dated Dec. 15, 2005, offering congratulations to a woman on her engagement to “Jimmy Kobel.”
Tracking down a Facebook page for the woman, the investigator determined that she was in fact married to James Kobel. Property records showed that the couple owned a home together on Long Island.
In yet another connection, “Clouseau” once posted on the Rant that his mother died on Feb. 21, 2019, “after suffering for a few years from dementia.”
The investigators tracked down an obituary for Kobel’s mother, Elizabeth Frances Kobel, who died on the same date. The obituary asked that donations be made in Kobel’s memory to the Long Island Alzheimer’s Foundation.
The Times has independently verified these and other connections.
Torres, an Afro-Latino Democrat from the Bronx who won a seat in Congress on Tuesday, prepared his report at a highly charged moment, when people across the country were questioning how the police have traditionally dealt with Black and Hispanic communities.
Since the death of George Floyd this spring at the hands of the police in Minneapolis, hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers have taken to the streets to protest police brutality and what they have described as the systemic racism inside the department in New York.
Torres, who is openly gay, has also been on the receiving end of personal attacks from some leaders of the city’s police unions.
The report, which was documented by extensive footnotes and included a 26-page appendix of supporting materials, describes a series of posts by “Clouseau” reaching back to at least summer 2019.
In one, the writer called Rep. Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, a Somali American Democrat, a “filthy animal.” Another post labeled Dante de Blasio, the Black son of Mayor Bill de Blasio, as a “brillohead.”
White liberals have also provoked outbursts from “Clouseau.”
When City Council Speaker Corey Johnson, who is white and gay, demanded an investigation into the department’s use of pedestrian stops, “Clouseau” wrote, “Perhaps we should all take a step back from Stop, Question, and Maybe Frisk, until dear old Corey ends up the victim of a crime in one of the local bathhouses.”
Kobel, reached by text message and given a second opportunity to respond to the report, once again denied being “Clouseau.”
“Nonetheless, despite my denial, it will likely end my career,” he wrote. “Where do I go to get my reputation back?”

Subject: Evidence; Police departments; Councils; Racism; Deaths; Criminal investigations; Police brutality; Reputations; Cities

Location: New York; Long Island New York; New York City New York; United States--US

People: Torres, Ritchie

Company / organization: Name: Police Department-New York City NY; NAICS: 922120

Identifier / keyword: United States; Marriages; Medicine And Health; Economy, Business And Finance; Electronics; Accidents And Safety; Crime And Criminals; Type Of Material; Science And Technology; Social Conditions And Trends; Crime, Law And Justice; Criminal Justice; Police; Politics And Government; Local Government; Somalia; Puerto Rico; New York City; Minnesota; Minneapolis (Minn); Long Island (Ny); Bronx (Nyc); Linkedin Corporation; Facebook Inc; Senate; Police Department (Nyc); Police Department (Minneapolis, Minn); New York Times; New York Post; Ne w York (Magazine); Long Island Alzheimer's Foundation; House Of Representatives; Democratic Party; City Council (Nyc); Captains Endowment Assn; De Blasio, Dante; De Blasio, Bill; Torres, Ritchie (1988 ); Sellers, Peter; Rashbaum, William K; Omar, Ilhan; Obama, Barack; Kobel, James F; Johnson, Corey; Floyd, George (D 2020); Feuer, Alan; Homosexuality And Bisexuality; Hispanic Americans; Privacy; Social Media; Organized Labor; Cellular Telephones; Weddings And Engagements; Philanthropy; Wireless Communications; Hate Crimes; Labor And Jobs; City Councils; Discrimination; Somali Americans; Seasons And Months; Anti Semitism; Hiring And Promotion; Alzheimer's Disease; Summer (Season); Computers And The Internet; Content Type: Personal Profile; Race And Ethnicity; Workplace Hazards And Violations; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Black People; George Floyd Protests (2020)

Title: NYPD Anti-Harassment Official Accused of Racist Rants

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 5, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-05 @ 16:34

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2457737581

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/nypd-anti-harassment-official-accused-racist/docview/2457737581/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 5, 2020

Last updated: 2022-10-14

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 21 of 34

Ex-Officers in George Floyd Case to Be Tried Together, With Cameras Rolling

Author: Arango, Tim

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ex-officers-george-floyd-case-be-tried-together/docview/2457737576/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=Ex-Officers+in+George+Floyd+Case+to+Be+Tried+Together%2C+With+Cameras+Rolling&amp;aulast=Arango%2C+Tim&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
In an important win for the prosecution, a judge in Minneapolis on Thursday ruled that the four officers charged in the killing of George Floyd, a Black man who took some of his last breaths under the knee of a white officer on a Minneapolis street corner in May, will stand trial together.
The judge also ruled that the news media can broadcast the trial, scheduled for next spring — an unusual move in Minneapolis, where courts are generally closed to cameras. The judge cited the coronavirus pandemic, which limits the number of people who can be in the courtroom at any time, and the immense national and international interest in the case.
“Protests demanding justice for George Floyd continue,” the judge, Peter Cahill of Hennepin County, wrote in his ruling. “It is expected that, even with some overflow courtrooms, the demand by family members, the public, and the press to attend the joint trial will outstrip the court’s ability to provide meaningful access.”
Cahill also said the trial will remain — for now — in the Twin Cities, although he left open the possibility of moving it later if the court is unable to seat a jury untainted by the vast publicity the case has already generated.
The defendants, including Derek Chauvin, the white officer who pinned Floyd to the ground for more than nine minutes, had asked the court for a change of venue, arguing that they would not be able to receive a fair trial in Minneapolis because of pretrial publicity and the wide-scale protests against racial injustice Floyd’s death sparked in Minneapolis and around the country as well the world.
Experts following the case in Minneapolis have said they believe Cahill is determined to keep the case in the Twin Cities, understanding that moving the trial would likely provoke new protests and fears of a less diverse jury. Such a move would have evoked the history of the Rodney King case in Los Angeles in 1992. The trial against the police officers who beat King was moved to a largely white suburb, and it resulted in acquittals on assault charges that led to riots.
Cahill also ordered that the jurors would remain anonymous and said they would be partially sequestered during the trial and ordered to drive each morning to a secure location, from where they would be escorted to the courtroom.
Attorney General Keith Ellison of Minnesota, whose office is overseeing the prosecution, said in a statement that he was satisfied with the court’s decision.
“The murder of George Floyd occurred in Minneapolis, and it is right that the defendants should be tried in Minneapolis,” he said. “It is also true that they acted in concert with each other, and the evidence against them is similar, so it is right to try them in one trial.”
Chauvin, who had been a 19-year-veteran on the police force, is charged with second-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter and faces 40 years in prison if convicted.
The other officers, including two rookies who had aided Chauvin in pinning Floyd to the pavement in front of a convenience store, are charged with aiding and abetting second-degree murder. Former officer Tou Thao, who knelt to the side and kept at bay bystanders who were yelling that Floyd was having difficulty breathing, is also charged with aiding and abetting second-degree murder. All four former officers, who were fired after the incident, have been released on bail.
The two rookie officers, Thomas Lane and J. Alexander Kueng, were the first on the scene the evening of May 25 after a convenience store clerk called the police saying that Floyd had tried to pass off a counterfeit $20 bill to pay for cigarettes.
From the start, Floyd, 46, was agitated and resisted being put in the back of a squad car, saying he was claustrophobic. After Chauvin arrived, Floyd was placed face down on the street, where he repeatedly said he couldn’t breathe.
As bystanders gathered, one of them captured the scene on a cellphone camera; in video that was viewed around the world and provoked weeks of unrest in U.S. cities, Floyd continued to say he couldn’t breathe and called out for his mother. By the time paramedics arrived, Floyd went limp and seemed to stop breathing. He was later declared dead at a hospital.
A lawyer for Kueng, Thomas Plunkett, said that though the judge’s rulings went against their desire for a separate trial and change of venue, “we are happy to have the orders so we can start preparing for our trial and presenting the truth in front of a jury.”
Earl Gray, the lawyer for Lane, and Eric Nelson, the lawyer for Chauvin, declined to comment on the judge’s rulings. A lawyer for Thao did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
All four of the former officers had asked for separate trials and suggested in court filings that they each place blame for Floyd’s death onto one another. The prosecution, all along, has asked for one trial, arguing that multiple trials would traumatize Floyd’s family, eyewitnesses and the larger community, which faced weeks of unrest in the streets after Floyd’s death.
In his ruling ordering one trial, Cahill noted that the defense for all four defendants centers on similar arguments: that the use of force to subdue Floyd was justified and that Floyd’s death was caused by drugs that were found in his system and underlying health conditions.
The medical examiner has ruled Floyd’s death a homicide because of “cardiopulmonary arrest” from Chauvin’s knee, with other causes considered contributing factors.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Court hearings & proceedings; Convenience stores; Prosecutions; Manslaughter; Trials; State court decisions; Murders & murder attempts

Business indexing term: Subject: Convenience stores

Location: New York; Minnesota; United States--US

People: Chauvin, Derek; Lane, Thomas; Floyd, George

Identifier / keyword: United States; Medicine And Health; Epidemics; Prisons And Prisoners; Courts And The Judiciary; Economy, Business And Finance; Electronics; Crime And Criminals; Social Conditions And Trends; Race And Ethnicity; Crime, Law And Justice; Criminal Justice; Police; Minnesota; Minneapolis (Minn); Los Angeles (Calif); Police Department (Minneapolis, Minn); Thao, Tou; Lane, Thomas (Minneapolis, Minn, Police Officer); King, Rodney Glen; Floyd, George (D 2020); Chauvin, Derek (1976 ); Arango, Tim; Assaults; Privacy; Prison Guards And Corrections Officers; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Cameras; Urban Areas; Decisions And Verdicts; Murders, Attempted Murders And Homicides; Black People; Black Lives Matter Movement; George Floyd Protests (2020)

Title: Ex-Officers in George Floyd Case to Be Tried Together, With Cameras Rolling

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 5, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-05 @ 18:56

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2457737576

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/ex-officers-george-floyd-case-be-tried-together/docview/2457737576/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 5, 2020

Last updated: 2022-09-06

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 22 of 34

‘Count Every Vote’: Protests Over Ballot Tallies Sweep Through U.S. Cities

Author: Baker, Mike; Bogel-Burroughs, Nicholas; Romero, Simon

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/count-every-vote-protests-over-ballot-tallies/docview/2457700226/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=%E2%80%98Count+Every+Vote%E2%80%99%3A+Protests+Over+Ballot+Tallies+Sweep+Through+U.S.+Cities&amp;aulast=Baker%2C+Mike%3BBogel-Burroughs%2C+Nicholas%3BRomero%2C+Simon&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
PORTLAND, Ore. — Calling on election officials to “count every vote,” protesters marched through the streets of several American cities Wednesday in response to President Donald Trump’s aggressive effort to challenge the vote count in Tuesday’s presidential election.
In Minneapolis, protesters blocked a freeway, prompting arrests. In Portland, hundreds gathered on the waterfront to protest the president’s attempted interventions in the vote count as a separate group protesting the police and urging racial justice surged through downtown, smashing shop windows and confronting police officers and National Guard troops.
In Phoenix, about 150 pro-Trump protesters, some of them armed, gathered outside the county recorder’s office where a closely watched count of votes that could help determine the outcome of the election was being conducted.
At several points, protesters contended that Adrian Fontes, the county official who oversees elections in Maricopa County, was improperly failing to count some ballots and costing Trump votes in Arizona’s most populous county — although there was no evidence that any ballots had been improperly tossed.
Keely Varvel, Fontes’ chief deputy, said there were no plans to halt counting of the ballots because of the protest in front of the building. “We are still planning to finish up our scheduled ballot processing work and report out more results tonight,” Varvel said.
Another group of pro-Trump poll watchers gathered earlier outside a ballot-counting center in Detroit, demanding that officials “stop the count” of ballots after the Trump campaign filed suit to halt the count in Michigan.
Trump claimed early Wednesday that he had won the election long before key states had counted all their ballots. He spent much of the day asserting, without evidence, that people were trying to “steal” the election from him and cast doubt on the legitimacy of the many ballots sent through the mail because of the coronavirus pandemic.
Early Thursday, former Vice President Joe Biden was only a handful of electoral votes from winning the election, and Trump’s campaign was mounting an aggressive legal effort to challenge the tally, filing lawsuits in Michigan, Georgia and Pennsylvania.
“It’s such a dangerous moment,” said Carol Carmick, 59, who said she joined the protests in Portland out of fears that Trump would try to stay in power even if he lost the election.
Protesters also gathered in Philadelphia, Los Angeles, Chicago and elsewhere, some of them continuing the protests over racial justice and policing that have rocked the country since the police killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis in May. More demonstrations were scheduled for the coming days.
In Minneapolis, several hundred protesters angered over the president’s declarations marched onto Interstate 94, prompting the police to clear the roadway.
“Our focus is on not allowing Donald Trump to steal this election from the American people,” Nekima Levy Armstrong, a lawyer who was part of the protest, said in a phone interview from the freeway. She said that the protesters had halted traffic and that the police, some on horses, had begun to make arrests and were not allowing protesters to leave.
The Minnesota State Patrol said on Twitter that it was arresting protesters and that demonstrating on the freeway “is illegal and very dangerous for pedestrians and motorists.”
In New York, protesters held a peaceful demonstration in Manhattan earlier Wednesday calling for every vote to be counted and for racial equality, but hostile clashes between protesters and the police developed later on when protesters briefly shut down traffic in the West Village and officers pushed protesters to the sidewalks and arrested at least 20 people.
In Portland, hundreds of people marched through downtown. “The Vote Is Over. The Fight Goes On,” one sign read. The crowd later stopped at a separate “Count Every Vote” rally along the waterfront, where speakers expressed fears that Trump, who lost decisively in Oregon, was trying to sabotage the election and prevent votes from being counted in other states.
A portion of the crowd proceeded through downtown, where some people smashed windows. At that point, dozens of police officers began chasing the crowd through the streets and declared a riot. Gov. Kate Brown had extended an emergency declaration earlier in the day, allowing her to activate the National Guard that joined Wednesday night’s operations. The authorities said they made 10 arrests.
The city has seen persistent protests since May, and many of the demonstrators have vowed to continue their actions to support racial justice and oppose police brutality no matter who wins the election.
More than a dozen protests against Trump’s efforts to stop votes from being counted were organized by Refuse Fascism. At the one in Seattle, a group of protesters yelled, “Every city, every town, Trump-Pence out now,” and “Count every single vote.”
At the pro-Trump event in Phoenix, at least 150 people gathered in front of the state Capitol before marching to the Maricopa County Recorder’s Office.
“The only way Biden can win Arizona is through fraud,” said Jim Williams, 67, a welder who attended the protest. “I won’t accept a Biden victory. I don’t want to live under Communist rule.”
Some in the crowd chanted “Down With Fox,” reflecting the protesters’ ire at Fox News’ decision Tuesday to call Arizona for Biden, a move that some other news outlets later followed.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Voting machines; Military reserves; Political campaigns; Election results; Presidential elections; Demonstrations & protests; Police brutality

Location: United States--US; New York; Arizona; Detroit Michigan; Michigan

People: Trump, Donald J

Identifier / keyword: Infrastructure (Public Works); Politics And Government; Presidential Elections (Us); Crime And Criminals; Social Conditions And Trends; Race And Ethnicity; Crime, Law And Justice; Criminal Justice; Police; Western States (Us); United States; Seattle (Wash); Portland (Ore); Phoenix (Ore); Philadelphia (Pa); Pennsylvania; Oregon; Minnesota; Minneapolis (Minn); Michigan; Maricopa County (Ariz); Manhattan (Nyc); Los Angeles (Calif); Georgia; Detroit (Mich); Chicago (Ill); Arizona; Twitter; Police Department (Chicago, Ill); National Guard; Trump, Donald J; Romero, Simon; Floyd, George (D 2020); Brown, Kate (1960 ); Biden, Joseph R Jr; Discrimination; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Roads And Traffic; Black People; Black Lives Matter Movement; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; United States Politics And Government; Presidential Election Of 2020; George Floyd Protests (2020)

Title: ‘Count Every Vote’: Protests Over Ballot Tallies Sweep Through U.S. Cities

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 5, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-05 @ 10:37

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2457700226

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/count-every-vote-protests-over-ballot-tallies/docview/2457700226/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 5, 2020

Last updated: 2022-09-06

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 23 of 34

Philadelphia Releases Body-Camera Video of Fatal Police Shooting of Black Man

Author: Levenson, Michael

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/philadelphia-releases-body-camera-video-fatal/docview/2457441799/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=Philadelphia+Releases+Body-Camera+Video+of+Fatal+Police+Shooting+of+Black+Man&amp;aulast=Levenson%2C+Michael&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Officials in Philadelphia urged calm Wednesday as they released body-camera footage from last week of two police officers fatally shooting a Black man with a history of mental illness who was holding a knife. The police also announced new training measures intended to help officers respond to mental health crises.
The man, Walter Wallace Jr., 27, was fatally shot by officers Oct. 26 in an encounter that was also captured on video by a bystander and shared on social media.
In the bystander’s video and in the police bodycam footage, Wallace is seen walking into the street in the direction of the officers, who back away and aim their guns at him. The officers yell repeatedly at Wallace to “put the knife down” and then fire multiple rounds. After Wallace falls to the ground, his mother screams and rushes to his body.
A lawyer for the family had said that Wallace was experiencing a crisis that day and that the family had told officers about it when they arrived at the scene.
In the bodycam footage, a woman can be heard repeatedly screaming that Wallace is “mental” as the officers point their guns at him.
The shooting touched off protests and looting in the city, which prompted Gov. Tom Wolf to call in the National Guard and the city to order a 9 p.m. curfew.
In the days that followed, more than 200 people were arrested, cars were burned and more than 50 officers were hurt, ratcheting up tensions in a nation that was already on edge before Election Day.
The White House blamed the “liberal Democrats’ war against the police” for the destruction, while former Vice President Joe Biden and Sen. Kamala Harris lamented Wallace’s death, condemned the looting and castigated Trump for fanning “the flames of division in our society.”
At a news conference Wednesday, Philadelphia’s mayor, district attorney and police commissioner joined Black clergy members in expressing sadness over Wallace’s death. They urged people not to resort to violence in response to the bodycam footage, as well as 911 calls and police radio transmissions that were released.
“We know this moment is incredibly painful, given so many failures over generations to protect all of Philadelphia’s residents, especially those who are Black or brown,” Mayor Jim Kenney said.
The “very painful” videos, he said, “will elicit anger, rage, distress, evoke more questions — and rightfully so.”
Larry Krasner, the district attorney, called the shooting “a terrible tragedy” and said that it showed that officers had failed to properly respond to a mother in distress about her son’s mental health crisis.
“Government failed because her son was killed within a minute of government’s arrival,” he said. “As a part of government, I apologize for that.”
Still, Krasner said that if residents wanted to honor Wallace and respect his family’s wishes, they should not “disgrace his memory by tearing up the city.”
Mary Floyd Palmer, one of the clergy members who spoke at the news conference, said Wallace “should be here today.” She said Philadelphians should show compassion and care in response to his death.
“God is watching,” she said. “So are our children. What will they say about what you have done?”
On Wednesday, about 300 people gathered outside City Hall to protest the killing. They stood in front of a banner that read Count Every Vote, near the Pennsylvania Convention Center where city officials were tallying ballots in the presidential election.
As helicopters flew overhead, about two dozen National Guard troops stood alongside Philadelphia police officers.
City officials said the Police Department and the District Attorney’s Office were continuing to investigate the shooting.
The officers were identified Wednesday as Sean Matarazzo, 25, who has been with the department since 2018, and Thomas Munz, 26, who has been on the force since 2017. The Police Department said both officers had been placed on “restrictive duty” while the investigation continues.
John McNesby, the president of the Philadelphia Fraternal Order of Police Lodge #5, the union that represents the city’s officers, said it had been calling for the release of the video and the 911 calls since last Tuesday.
“Eight days later, city officials held an hourlong press conference casting blame on these officers for this incident in which they were forced to make a split-second decision,” McNesby said. “This is baseless and not supported by facts.”
He said the officers had followed their training and department policy.
“Mayor Kenney has called this ‘police violence,’” McNesby said. “However, the real violence was perpetrated by a knife-wielding man who confronted our police officers.”
City officials also said they were expanding programs intended to help the police defuse mental health crises without violence.
Next week, officials said, 911 call takers and dispatchers will be trained to better identify calls related to people in crisis so they can dispatch specially trained officers.
By January, specially trained officers will respond to such calls along with civilian mental health experts, officials said.
“We firmly believe that mental illness, disabilities and substance use disorders are not crimes,” said Jill Bowen, acting commissioner of the Philadelphia Department of Behavioral Health and Intellectual disAbility Services. “Individuals affected by these challenges have the right to treatment, recovery, wellness and life.”
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Press conferences; Clergy; Violence; Fatalities; Military reserves; Looting; Police; Presidential elections; Mental health care; Mental disorders; Police shootings

Location: New York; United States--US

People: Wallace, Walter Jr

Identifier / keyword: United States; Electronics; Conflict, War And Peace; Politics And Government; Presidential Elections (Us); Crime And Criminals; Economy, Business And Finance; Telephones And Telecommunications; Science And Technology; Computers And The Internet; Social Conditions And Trends; Race And Ethnicity; Medicine And Health; Crime, Law And Justice; Criminal Justice; Phi ladelphia (Pa); Pennsylvania; Police Department (Philadelphia, Pa); National Guard; House Of Representatives; Wolf, Thomas W; Wallace, Walter Jr (1993 2020); Trump, Donald J; Krasner, Larry (1961 ); Kenney, James F (1958 ); Harris, Kamala D; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Video Recordings, Downloads And Streaming; Cameras; Emergency Telephone Numbers; Nine One One (911) (Emergency Phone Number); United States Politics And Government; Looting (Crime); Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Mental Health And Disorders; Murders, Attempted Murders And Homicides; Black People; Police; Black Lives Matter Movement; Presidential Election Of 2020; George Floyd Protests (2020)

Title: Philadelphia Releases Body-Camera Video of Fatal Police Shooting of Black Man

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 4, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-04 @ 23:20

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2457441799

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/philadelphia-releases-body-camera-video-fatal/docview/2457441799/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 4, 2020

Last updated: 2022-09-06

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 24 of 34

Recreational Marijuana Legalized by New Jersey Voters

Author: Tully, Tracey

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/recreational-marijuana-legalized-new-jersey/docview/2457144882/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=Recreational+Marijuana+Legalized+by+New+Jersey+Voters&amp;aulast=Tully%2C+Tracey&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
After years of legislative failures, New Jersey voters on Tuesday authorized the legal use of recreational marijuana in a year when supporters rallied around the disproportionate number of arrests for the drug in minority communities.
The ballot question passed as expected, by a wide margin, according to preliminary results from The Associated Press.
The vote allows New Jersey officials to begin the thorny, potentially lengthy process of establishing rules related to regulating and testing cannabis and issuing licenses, including how many permits to grant — and to whom.
It also instantly raises the ante for neighboring states like New York and Pennsylvania, increasing pressure on lawmakers who support legalization to take action or risk losing the competitive edge to New Jersey in what is expected to be one of the largest marijuana markets in the country.
State Sen. Liz Krueger of New York, the author of a legalization bill pending in Albany, said the “yes” vote could be the incentive Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and lawmakers need to break a yearslong logjam.
“I’m going to cheer on New Jersey,” said Krueger, a Democrat from Manhattan, “and hope that it helps us beat them to the punch.”
Arizona also approved a ballot measure to legalize recreational marijuana, and voters in Montana and South Dakota faced similar questions on Tuesday. If the questions pass in all four states, a third of the country will soon live in a state or city where it is legal to smoke pot without a medical justification, eight years after Colorado and Washington became the first states to legalize the drug.
The question New Jersey voters approved called for a 6.625% state tax on marijuana sales to customers 21 or older, and permitted municipalities to charge an extra 2% tax. But most other implementation details must now be worked out by the Legislature and a Cannabis Regulatory Commission with five members — only one of whom has been appointed.
In Massachusetts, it took two years from the time voters approved nonmedical use of marijuana to the grand opening of the state’s first legal dispensaries.
The potential for extra tax revenue and new jobs may serve as a powerful motivator to move quickly in New Jersey, which is struggling to plug budget gaps left by a pandemic now stretching into its ninth month. The measure is expected to generate about $126 million a year once the market is established.
State Sen. Nicholas Scutari, a former municipal prosecutor who has long championed legalization of the drug for medical and recreational uses, said he was putting the final touches on a bill that would enable the state’s nine existing medical marijuana companies to sell excess cannabis to recreational users.
“We’re anticipating moving very quickly with enabling legislation, which would in fact allow medical marijuana shops to sell to the general public immediately,” said Scutari, a Democrat who represents Union County. “We’re happy to invite New York residents over to enjoy.”
Supporters of the measure have cited widely divergent arrest rates as a key reason to amend the drug laws.
In New Jersey, Black residents are more than three times as likely as white residents to be charged with marijuana possession, despite similar rates of usage — a disparity Scutari called a “colossal waste of resources and a colossal waste of people’s lives.”
The recreational use of marijuana is already legal in 11 other states and in Washington, and last year the governors of New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania and Connecticut — all Democrats who support legalization — met in New York to try to coordinate marijuana policies.
Cuomo identified legalization as a priority in January, well before the pandemic landed a full frontal blow to state finances and increased the rationale for finding new products to tax.
In an interview last month publicizing the release of his new book, Cuomo, who once called marijuana a “gateway drug,” said the fiscal crisis facing New York would likely help to push legalization across the finish line. “We need the money now,” the governor told a Bravo television personality.
But the conversation over legalizing marijuana now goes far beyond finances.
What was once an argument centered mainly on the bottom-line benefits of taxing and regulating a product widely in use has been reframed as one with racial equity at its heart. In the United States, Black residents are 3.64 times more likely than their white neighbors to be charged with marijuana possession, according to a 2018 report by the American Civil Liberties Union.
Over the summer, large coast-to-coast protests by demonstrators angered by police killings of African American residents reinforced a key pillar of the pro-legalization campaign: With fewer drug-related reasons for the police to make stops, there would be less opportunity for violent confrontations.
“This was a resounding victory. We led with racial justice messaging, and we’ve proven that it can win,” said Amol Sinha, the executive director of the ACLU-New Jersey, which led a coalition of groups in support of legalization. “We are now on a pathway for a more just future for New Jersey.”
The decision to put the question to voters came after failed attempts to pass a law legalizing marijuana, a promise Gov. Philip D. Murphy, a self-described progressive Democrat, campaigned on.
In December, the legalization effort fell short in the Senate by just one vote.
Last Wednesday, at 4:20 p.m., Murphy sent a message on Twitter urging voters to support legalization, latching on to a number popular in cannabis culture.
Opponents of legalization had argued that a separate bill pending in the Legislature to decriminalize the possession and distribution of up to a pound of marijuana would eliminate the enforcement inequities without normalizing use of the drug, which critics say can lead to mental health problems and create a gateway to dangerous narcotics.
A group that opposed the change to the State Constitution to legalize marijuana, Don’t Let NJ Go to Pot, mounted only a muted campaign, hamstrung by limited funds. As of Oct. 29, it had raised only $9,913, compared with the more than $2 million raised by several groups that supported the referendum.
The biggest pro-legalization donations, $800,000, came from a parent company of Scotts Miracle-Gro, a fertilizer company with a subsidiary that sells supplies to marijuana growers, according to the state Election Law Enforcement Commission.
A key issue for the Cannabis Regulatory Commission to address will be the push by social justice groups to ensure that communities that suffered most from uneven enforcement of marijuana laws have access to dispensary licenses. The state chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People has said it would insist on a seat at the table to avoid being crowded out by large companies eager to get a toehold in an emerging market.
“This amendment has the potential to be a powerful step forward in our fight against the drug war — or it could perpetuate a status quo that continues to oppress communities of color,” the Rev. Charles F. Boyer, the founder of Salvation and Social Justice, a nonpartisan faith-based organization, said in a statement. “The path forward is now is our hands.”
New York’s bill sets aside some licenses for large companies, and then uses the fees generated to create a startup fund for smaller entrepreneurs.
Still, much of the startup financing is expected to come through private equity firms or personal loans, not banks — most of which remain skittish about lending to marijuana outfits while the drug remains illegal under federal law.
Even getting a business checking account can be a high hurdle for most marijuana entrepreneurs, forcing many to rely primarily on cash transactions, according to Nathaniel Gurien, the chief executive of Fincann, a New York-based company that helps broker relationships between banks and cannabis sellers.
Details around who is authorized to test marijuana products — as well as how often testing is conducted and what components are examined — also still need to be finalized.
“The more normalized it is, the more education there will be and the more we can help people understand the benefits of this plant,” said Kristen Goedde, the founder of Trichome Analytical, a hemp testing company that opened in July in Mount Laurel, New Jersey.
It is illegal to transport marijuana between states. But the advantage of opening dispensaries within a short trip of New York City, home to more than 8 million residents, is indisputable.
“If New Jersey got there first and we got there later, I guarantee you the busiest group of retail marijuana stores in New Jersey would be directly across the Lincoln Tunnel and in Fort Lee, right off the George Washington Bridge,” said Krueger, the state senator from Manhattan.
“If our immediate state neighbors are going down the road,” she added, “of course it will bite into our market.”

Subject: Medical marijuana; Licenses; Social justice; Election results; Arrests; Referendums; Clinics; Startups; Pandemics

Business indexing term: Subject: Startups

Location: Pennsylvania; New York; New Jersey

Company / organization: Name: American Civil Liberties Union--ACLU; NAICS: 541110, 813311

Identifier / keyword: Police; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Science And Technology; Computers And The Internet; Medicine And Health; Alternative And Complementary Medicine; Conflict, War And Peace; United States Politics And Government; Presidential Elections (Us); Finances; Arts, Culture And Entertainment; Culture (Arts); Economy, Business And Finance; Corporations; Social Conditions And Trends; Criminal Justice; Crime And Criminals; Crime, Law And Justice; Elections; United States; Union County (Nj); South Dakota; Pennsy lvania; New York State; New York City; New Jersey; Mount Laurel Township (Nj); Montana; Massachusetts; Manhattan (Nyc); Lincoln Tunnel; George Washington Bridge; Fort Lee (Nj); Connecticut; Colorado; Arizona; Africa; Twitter; Senate; Scotts Miracle Gro Co Llc; National Assn For The Advancement Of Colored People; Metro Ag; Election Law Enforcement Commission; Democratic Party; Associated Press; American Civil Liberties Union; Murphy, Philip D (1957 ); Krueger, Liz; Cuomo, Andrew M; Elections, State Legislature; Books And Literature; Constitutions; Civil Rights And Liberties; Legislatures And Parliaments; State Legislatures; Entrepreneurship; Referendums; Banking And Financial Institutions; Philanthropy; Race And Ethnicity; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Regulation And Deregulation Of Industry; Presidential Election Of 2020; Corporate Social Responsibility; Voting And Voters; Campaign Finance; George Floyd Protests (2020); Budgets And Budgeting; Black People; Taxation; Medical Marijuana; Tests (Drug Use); Hashish; States (Us); Politics And Government; Drug Abuse And Traffic; Law And Legislation

Title: Recreational Marijuana Legalized by New Jersey Voters

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 3, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-03 @ 23:39

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2457144882

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/recreational-marijuana-legalized-new-jersey/docview/2457144882/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 3, 2020

Last updated: 2020-11-04

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 25 of 34

Despite Fears of Violence, Election Day Proceeds Smoothly as Millions Line Up to Vote

Author: Kanno-Youngs, Zolan; Steinhauer, Jennifer; Perlroth, Nicole

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/despite-fears-violence-election-day-proceeds/docview/2457126166/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=Despite+Fears+of+Violence%2C+Election+Day+Proceeds+Smoothly+as+Millions+Line+Up+to+Vote&amp;aulast=Kanno-Youngs%2C+Zolan%3BSteinhauer%2C+Jennifer%3BPerlroth%2C+Nicole&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
WASHINGTON — Despite fears of widespread intimidation or disruptions at polling places, voting for a vast majority of Americans proceeded smoothly on Tuesday with sporadic reports of robocalls, text messages, and some live calls meant to confuse and deter voters, or scattered incidents, but few major problems.
“It’s definitely a relief so far,” said Daryl Johnson, a former senior analyst with the Department of Homeland Security who focuses on domestic terrorism. But he warned that “the period after the election is going to be more volatile and higher risk because you’re going to be dealing with the aftermath of the election results.”
By early evening, most of the complaints around the country concerning intimidation centered on robocalls made to voters relaying false information. The Election Protection Hotline said it received reports of robocalls from 17 states discouraging voting.
The Michigan attorney general, Dana Nessel, said in a tweet that callers were directing voters to delay going to the polls to avoid long lines. “Obviously this is FALSE and an effort to suppress the vote. No long lines and today is the last day to vote,” Nessel said. “Don’t believe the lies! Have your voice heard!”
The robocall complaint came on top of live calls to voters in Michigan that threatened voters in Flint and Grand Rapids with arrests if they showed up to the polls, and a text message sent to voters in Dearborn that warned of “ballot sensor” malfunctions in the voting precincts. The message, which the state attorney general’s office is investigating, told voters that if they wanted their vote for their preferred presidential candidate to count, they actually had to mark the ballot for the other candidate.
The FBI also confirmed the robocalls.
“As a reminder, the FBI encourages the American public to verify any election and voting information they may receive through their local election officials,” the agency said in a statement.
In Michigan, voters also started receiving disturbing, typo-filled text messages about the contest between President Donald Trump and Joe Biden that claimed to come from the FBI.
The messages, which were sent to voters in Dearborn — which has the largest concentration of Muslims per capita in the U.S. — read, “Urgent alert: Due to a typographical error, scantron ballots being used for the 2020 election has swapped sensors. If you are intending on voting for Joe Biden you must bubble in Trump and vice verse. — Federal Berue of Investigation.”
A spokeswoman for the Michigan attorney general’s office said officials were still trying to track down the sender. The office sent out an urgent alert on Facebook and Twitter to make sure voters in Dearborn did not fall for the scam.
In Virginia, Kristen Clarke, the president of the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, said robocalls went out warning voters that they might get sick if they went out to vote. “Stay home and stay safe,” the calls said.
The robocalls were similar to those reported in Michigan, Texas, California, Florida, Kansas, Ohio, Washington, Georgia, New York, New Hampshire and Pennsylvania on Tuesday. Zignal Labs, a media analytics firm, tracked more than 14,248 mentions of robocalls on social media on Tuesday, the vast majority of them in Michigan, Kansas and Florida.
The “stay home and stay safe” robocalls had started during the campaign and were continuing during voting, Clarke said. Voting rights groups said voters in several other states had gotten similar calls directing them to vote on Wednesday, Clarke said.
All told, more than 3 million calls were made to some 800,000 people across the country on Tuesday, instructing them to “stay safe and stay home,” according to data provided by the firm TelTech.
A senior homeland security official said such robocalls are common during elections and intelligence officials said there did not seem to be any early indications that the calls were originating from a foreign government. But Gen. Paul M. Nakasone, the director of the National Security Agency, said that his agency would “take a very close look” at the calls, and said that he was confident the FBI was “on top of it right now.”
Homeland Security intelligence warned last month that extremists could look to target “physical election infrastructure” like polling sites.
Federal officials and local police officials on Tuesday continued to prepare for possible unrest going into election night, with the Homeland Security Department deploying tactical agents from Customs and Border Protection, and Immigration and Customs Enforcement throughout the United States to protect federal property. A new fence had been erected in front of Lafayette Square, near the White House.
The agents deployed by the Homeland Security Department are directed to guard federal buildings, not conduct immigration enforcement. Such homeland security tactical teams were also the subject of a report issued by the homeland security inspector general on Tuesday that said the agency had sent the teams to quell protests in Portland, Oregon, without the proper authority or training. The Homeland Security Department disputed the finding.
During a news briefing focused on cyberthreats, Christopher Krebs, director of the U.S. Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, encouraged Americans to be patient through Election Day. “Keep calm, vote on, and then after today keep calm and let them count,” Krebs said.
Bob Bauer, a former White House counsel who is helping to lead the Biden campaign’s election protection efforts, said that the campaign was seeing “minimal issues and disruptions” around voting, and that “by and large, voting is proceeding smoothly.”
Still, a few random acts of violence or intimidation did pop up. In Chicago, a man told the police that a group had clubbed his car with baseball bats as he drove near a polling site, according to Sally Brown, a spokeswoman for the Chicago Police Department.
An armed man wearing a Trump hat, combat boots and a visible sidearm was arrested upon returning to a North Carolina polling place after being barred earlier in the day, according to the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department.
The police identified the man as Justin Dunn, 36. They said in a statement that he voted at the site but “continued to loiter” afterward, prompting a call to the police “regarding Dunn possibly intimidating other voters.”
The staff at a museum in Kansas City, Missouri, moved to cover up a spray-painted message reading “Don’t Vote.”
In Dallas County, Texas, a dispute over masks forced a Democratic election judge and several voters to leave a precinct out of concern for their health.
Just as voting was set to begin on Tuesday, Beth Biesel, a Republican election judge told her Democratic counterpart, Lynn Dickinson, that she and her appointed poll workers refused to wear masks. In Texas, two election judges are appointed to each polling site — a presiding election judge by the majority party and the alternate judge by the minority — to set up polls and ensure the security of the ballots.
Biesel previously joined a Texas activist in filing a lawsuit last month challenging Dallas County’s mask requirement for poll workers. The Texas Supreme Court denied their request.
On Tuesday, Biesel showed up without a mask anyway, in what Dickinson and one nonpartisan poll watcher described as a political statement.
“This was a small crowded room with a poll judge and poll workers who were aggressively getting in people’s faces and not wearing masks,” said Joanna Grossman, a nonpartisan Dallas County poll watcher. “It was very much a staged event. Unfortunately, they were not there to process voters.”
Despite the relative calm during voting, law enforcement officials across the nation nonetheless remained on high alert on Tuesday. Election Day came after a weekend in which caravans blocked roadways and there was an increase in threats made online and at the close of a bitterly divisive election.
Retailers and banks from Boston to Washington to Los Angeles searched for beefed-up security. Disney and Saks Fifth Avenue were among the brand-name stores in Manhattan that boarded up their windows. And Rodeo Drive in Beverly Hills was closed for Election Day and the day after.

Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Immigration policy; Police departments; Attorneys general; Law enforcement; National security; Voting rights; Social networks; Election results; False information; Criminal investigations; Presidential elections

Business indexing term: Subject: Social networks

Location: Chicago Illinois; United States--US; New York; Grand Rapids Michigan; Michigan

People: Biden, Joseph R Jr

Company / organization: Name: Department of Homeland Security; NAICS: 922120; Name: Federal Bureau of Investigation--FBI; NAICS: 922120

Identifier / keyword: Arabs; Police; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Crime, Law And Justice; Criminal Justice; Courts And The Judiciary; Legal Profession; Advertising And Marketing; Presidential Election s (Us); Electronics; Science And Technology; Computers And The Internet; Elections; Politics And Government; Education; Economy, Business And Finance; Media; Social Conditions And Trends; Race And Ethnicity; Washington (State); Virginia; United States; Texas; Rodeo Drive (Beverly Hills, Calif); Portland (Ore); Pennsylvania; Oregon; New York State; New Hampshire; Missouri; Minneapolis (Minn); Michigan; Mckinney (Tex); Manhattan (Nyc); Los Angeles (Calif); Lafayette Square (Washington, Dc); Kansas City (Mo); Jennings (Mo); Iowa; Grand Rapids (Mich); Georgia; Florida; Flint (Mich); Dearborn (Mich); Chicago (Ill); California; Beverly Hills (Calif); Walt Disney Company; Twitter; Facebook Inc; Saks Fifth Avenue; Police Department (Chicago, Ill); Lawyers' Committee For Civil Rights; Immigration And Customs Enforcement (Us); Homeland Security Department; Georgetown University Law Center; Customs And Border Protection (Us); Brown University; Arab American Institute; Trump, Donald J; Steinhauer, Jennifer; Perlroth, Nicole; Nessel, Dana; Floyd, George (D 2020); Clarke, Kristen (1974 ); Biden, Joseph R Jr; Bauer, Robert F; Arab Americans; Inspectors General; Social Media; News And News Media; Finances; Voting And Voters; Wireless Communications; Border Barriers; Cellular Telephones; Text Messaging; Colleges And Universities; Immigration And Emigration; Attorneys General; Black People; Telemarketing; George Floyd Protests (2020); Federal State Relations (Us); Polls And Public Opinion; States (Us); United States Politics And Go vernment

Title: Despite Fears of Violence, Election Day Proceeds Smoothly as Millions Line Up to Vote

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 3, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-03 @ 22:35

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2457126166

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/despite-fears-violence-election-day-proceeds/docview/2457126166/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 3, 2020

Last updated: 2022-09-07

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 26 of 34

Hong Kong Journalist Arrested After Investigating Police Misconduct

Author: Austin Ramzy; Yu, Elaine

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hong-kong-journalist-arrested-after-investigating/docview/2456881782/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=Hong+Kong+Journalist+Arrested+After+Investigating+Police+Misconduct&amp;aulast=Austin+Ramzy%3BYu%2C+Elaine&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
HONG KONG — Police in Hong Kong arrested a prizewinning journalist Tuesday whose work had exposed the authorities’ delayed response to a mob attack on anti-government protesters last year, intensifying concerns about a crackdown on press freedom in the semi-autonomous Chinese city.
The journalist, Choy Yuk-ling, who also goes by the name Bao Choy, is a producer for Radio Television Hong Kong, or RTHK, a public broadcaster. The network’s news programs have attracted official criticism for investigations into the Hong Kong police, who have been accused of using excessive force against the protesters and turning a blind eye to assaults on them.
Choy worked on some of the most notable inquiries into police conduct, including a prizewinning episode of the program “Hong Kong Connection” that examined the slow response by officers to a mob attack on a group of protesters and commuters in a train station on July 21, 2019.
Choy, who is employed by RTHK on a freelance contract, was arrested Tuesday afternoon.
Police said they arrested Choy for making a false statement about why she was obtaining license information from a publicly accessible database. Such offenses could be punishable with fines of $645 and six months’ imprisonment.
In an investigative documentary that aired in July, one year after the mob attack, RTHK journalists looked up the license plates of vehicles caught on video transporting the suspected assailants and traced them to community leaders in the territory’s outlying villages.
Hong Kong’s traditionally freewheeling news outlets have met with increased difficulties in recent years, including a loss of advertising from companies afraid to anger China and reporters arrested and attacked with pepper spray while covering last year’s protests. A new national security law imposed by Beijing at the end of June has compounded the risks for journalists, stifling reporting on potentially sensitive subjects.
Foreign news outlets in the city have also faced obstacles, including difficulty renewing visas for journalists. The New York Times said in July that it would move some of its operations from Hong Kong to Seoul, South Korea, citing visa delays and uncertainties created by the security law.
RTHK, which is a government department staffed in part by civil servants, has been under growing pressure from establishment lawmakers and pro-Beijing groups to curb its aggressive reporting, particularly about other government agencies.
On Tuesday, Amen Ng, RTHK’s spokeswoman, declined to comment further without more details of Choy’s arrest.
The Hong Kong Police Force faced widespread criticism after protesters accused them of ignoring calls for help during the train station attack in the Yuen Long district. At least 45 people were injured when men carrying sticks and metal bars set upon commuters and protesters inside the station and aboard a subway train.
More than a year later, police have moved to decisively change the narrative about the assault. In August, police arrested a lawmaker who filmed the attack and was wounded during it. Police also said in August that it had taken them 18 minutes to arrive on the scene after receiving emergency calls and not 39 minutes as they had previously said.
RTHK’s investigation into the station attack was just part of its work that has received scrutiny. This year the broadcaster suspended “Headliner,” a long running satirical show that frequently mocked the police. It also reopened an internal investigation into complaints about Nabela Qoser, a journalist well known for her pointed questions to government officials.
The government began a formal review into the RTHK’s operations in July after the broadcaster ran in April an interview with a World Health Organization official, Dr. Bruce Aylward, who was asked whether Taiwan should be allowed to participate in the global health body.
Taiwan, a self-ruled island that China considers part of its territory, had been excluded from the health organization because of pressure from Beijing. Hong Kong’s secretary for commerce and economic development, which supervises RTHK, accused the broadcaster of having breached China’s official stance toward Taiwan.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Journalism; Official misconduct; Journalists; National security; Assaults

Location: China; Hong Kong; Beijing China; New York; Taiwan; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: World; Buildings (Structures); Accidents And Safety; Crime And Criminals; Conflict, War And Peace; Human Rights And Human Rights Violations; Media; Economy, Business And Finance; Transportation; Transit Systems; Crime, Law And Justice; Criminal Justice; Police; Yuen Long (Hong Kong); Taiwan; South Korea; Seoul (South Korea); Hong Kong; China; Beijing (China); World Health Organization; Radio Television Hong Kong; New York Times; Aylward, Bruce; Documentary Films And Programs; Perjury; Stations And Terminals (Passenger); Subways; Television; Relocation Of Business; Railroad Accidents And Safety; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Hong Kong Protests (2019); Freedom Of The Press; George Floyd Protests (2020); Politics And Government; News And News Media

Title: Hong Kong Journalist Arrested After Investigating Police Misconduct

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 3, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-03 @ 11:52

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2456881782

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/hong-kong-journalist-arrested-after-investigating/docview/2456881782/se-2?accounti d=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 3, 2020

Last updated: 2022-09-06

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 27 of 34

Joe Biden’s 2020

Author: Kaplan, Thomas

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/joe-biden-s-2020/docview/2456881544/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=Joe+Biden%E2%80%99s+2020&amp;aulast=Kaplan%2C+Thomas&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Joe Biden began his 2020 presidential campaign by losing, and then losing some more. But after an extraordinary comeback, he claimed the prize that had eluded him in two previous presidential campaigns: the Democratic nomination.
In the capstone of a career that has included two terms as vice president and 36 years in the Senate, Biden is now facing President Donald Trump in a contest dominated by a pandemic and a summer of unrest over police killings of Black Americans.
Biden’s year got off to a rocky start. In February, Iowans dealt him his first setback with a fourth-place finish in the state’s caucuses, and New Hampshire’s primary a week later went even worse. He finished in fifth place — and fled the state before the results came in.
The former vice president and his team hoped his fortunes would improve when more diverse states began holding their contests. Nevada came next, and Biden finished a distant second behind Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont.
Then came South Carolina. It was the first early contest where a large number of Black voters would register their preferences, and Biden enjoyed good will with those voters, stemming from his loyal service at the side of President Barack Obama. He also won the coveted endorsement of the state’s most influential Democrat, Rep. James E. Clyburn.
When the results came in, he had won — and he had done so decisively, with more than twice as many votes as his closest rival, Sanders.
Over the next 48 hours, Biden got a big boost from his former competitors. Sen. Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and former Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Indiana, both endorsed him, and so did former Rep. Beto O’Rourke of Texas.
On Super Tuesday, Biden won 10 of 14 states, including some that he never campaigned in. His former rivals continued to coalesce around him over the next week. Sens. Kamala Harris of California and Cory Booker of New Jersey endorsed Biden before Michigan’s primary a week later.
On March 10, Biden traveled to Ohio, whose primary was scheduled for a week later. He was supposed to hold a rally in Cleveland, but the coronavirus pandemic was about to grip the nation and shut down the campaign trail. Biden’s rally was canceled.
There would not be more rallies any time soon. The pandemic effectively shut down the race between Biden and his remaining rival, Sanders, who dropped out in April.
Stuck at home in Delaware, Biden adapted to campaigning virtually — though not without some technical glitches. His campaign built a makeshift television studio in the basement of his home, allowing him to hold virtual events and give interviews as the pandemic raged.
Biden reemerged on Memorial Day, placing a wreath at a veterans memorial in Wilmington, Delaware, and wearing a mask, in contrast to how Trump had been appearing. The next week, he met with community leaders at a Black church in Wilmington following the death of George Floyd in police custody.
Biden eased back into campaigning — at a distance.
His campaign organized occasional in-person events in Delaware and neighboring Pennsylvania that were designed with safety in mind, with large white circles on the ground ensuring social distancing among reporters who attended.
Biden once described himself as a “bridge” to a new generation of leaders, and he pledged to choose a woman as his running mate. After months of suspense, he selected Harris, a former rival, to join the Democratic ticket.
Harris had once eviscerated Biden on a debate stage, but their rollout went smoothly. She spoke about working with Biden’s late son Beau Biden when they were state attorneys general, and the new ticket avoided getting tripped up by their past differences.
The pandemic derailed plans for the Democratic National Convention in Milwaukee and forced most of the proceedings online.
Biden and Harris accepted their nominations in front of socially distanced reporters at an event center in Wilmington — a far cry from the packed arena that was supposed to have cheered them on. On the convention’s final night, supporters gathered in their cars as if at a drive-in theater, and the new Democratic ticket joined them for a fireworks display.
Amid concerns from some Democrats about his visibility, Biden began to step up his campaigning around Labor Day, venturing to battleground states beyond the mid-Atlantic region. Once again, his campaign held carefully arranged events with social distancing and mask wearing, a stark contrast to Trump’s crowded rallies.
Biden was returning from a campaign trip to Minnesota when the news broke: Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg had died. Trump and Senate Republicans moved quickly to appoint Judge Amy Coney Barrett in her place.
Biden tried to frame the court fight as a battle over the future of health care in America, warning about Trump’s desire for the Supreme Court to strike down the Affordable Care Act.
The first debate was the subject of great anticipation, presenting Trump with a chance to change a race that was unfolding in Biden’s favor. It also put a spotlight on Biden after Trump had spent months portraying him as a senile old man.
The meeting, however, was remembered not for Biden’s performance but for Trump’s constant interruptions. Voters were left with a headache-inducing spectacle filled with attacks and light on substance.
Later that week came another seismic development: Trump tested positive for the coronavirus. Within two weeks, he had recovered and returned to the campaign trail with large rallies that flouted public health guidance.
Biden stuck to his approach. He made more visits to battleground states but refrained from holding crowded events.
In the final weeks, Biden pioneered a pandemic-appropriate substitute for traditional events: drive-in campaign rallies.
His speeches quickly took on a new soundtrack, with applause lines punctuated by the beeping of car horns.
On the last weekend before Election Day, Biden campaigned with Obama in Michigan, a state their ticket won twice. With coronavirus cases surging in many places, they condemned Trump over his handling of the pandemic.
Biden finished the campaign much the way he had started, presenting himself as a unifying figure who would work to repair the damage inflicted by Trump’s presidency.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Primaries & caucuses; Political campaigns; Nominations; Presidential elections; Candidates

Location: New York; Michigan; Delaware; Minnesota; United States--US

People: Harris, Kamala; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Company / organization: Name: Senate; NAICS: 921120

Identifier / keyword: Crime And Criminals; Medicine And Health; Epidemics; Criminal Justice; Police; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Movies; Arts, Culture And Entertainment; Culture (Arts); Education; Humanities; History (Academic Subject); Conflict, War And Peace; War And Revolution; Defense And Military Forces; Elections; Horizontal Terms; Social Conditions And Trends; Crime, Law And Justice; Law And Legislation; Politics And Government; Wilmington (Del); Vermont; United States; Texas; South Carolina; South Bend (Ind); Pennsylvania; Ohio; New Jersey; New Hampshire; Nevada; Minnesota; Milwaukee (Wis); Michigan; Indiana; Delaware; Cleveland (Ohio); California; Supreme Court (Us); Senate; Republican Party; Democratic Party; Trump, Donald J; Sanders, Bernard; Obama, Barack; O'rourke, Beto; Klobuchar, Amy; Harris, Kamala D; Ginsburg, Ruth Bader; Clyburn, James E; Buttigieg, Pete (1982 ); Booker, Cory A; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Biden, Joseph R Iii; Barrett, Amy Coney; Vice Presidents A nd Vice Presidency (Us); Patient Protection And Affordable Care Act (2010); Drive In Theaters; Two Thousand Twenty; Theater; Fugitives; Veterans; Presidential Elections (Us); Race And Ethnicity; Federal State Relations (Us); Democratic National Convention; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Mid Atlantic States (Us); States (Us); Black People; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); George Floyd Protests (2020); Endorsements; Primaries And Caucuses; White House Coronavirus Outbreak (2020); United States Politics And Government; Appointments And Executive Changes

Title: Joe Biden’s 2020

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 3, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-03 @ 12:35

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2456881544

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/joe-biden-s-2020/docview/2456881544/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 3, 2020

Last updated: 2022-09-06

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 28 of 34

Has Biden Taken Hispanic Voters for Granted?

Author: Thrush, Glenn; Russonello, Giovanni; Mazzei, Patricia

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/has-biden-taken-hispanic-voters-granted/docview/2456676091/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=Has+Biden+Taken+Hispanic+Voters+for+Granted%3F&amp;aulast=Thrush%2C+Glenn%3BRussonello%2C+Giovanni%3BMazzei%2C+Patricia&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Despite a late push to court Latino voters over the past several weeks, Joe Biden is ending his presidential bid on shaky and perhaps perilous ground with this diverse, essential segment of the electorate, according to interviews with Democratic officials, community activists and voters.
Several of the battleground states on a knife’s edge before Election Day — Florida, Texas, Arizona and even Pennsylvania — have large Latino populations. If Biden loses those states — let alone the election — Democrats are likely to be haunted by one question above others:
Did Biden do too little, too late to court Latino voters, neglecting them in the same way Hillary Clinton took Wisconsin for granted in 2016?
“There’s more we could have done on our side, there is more the Biden campaign should have done, as a party we are always so late to the game,” said Lorella Praeli, president of Community Change Action, a Washington-based progressive group that has been trying to mobilize Latino voters.
“We are always leaving people on the table, we are always leaving power on the table,” she added.
Polling in battleground states this fall has generally shown Biden leading President Donald Trump among Hispanic voters, but not in every case — and rarely by the same margin that Clinton commanded in 2016, especially among Hispanic men.
The picture is especially dicey for Biden in Florida. Trump and his team have aggressively courted conservatives in the Cuban, Venezuelan and Colombian communities around Miami for years, hoping to offset their losses among suburbanites and seniors in the state.
His closing message — that Biden is the captive of “radicals” and “socialists” — resonates deeply in the anti-Castro Cuban community, and Trump wrapped up Saturday’s five-rally day in Opa-locka, once home to a relocation center for refugees from the island.
A New York Times/Siena College poll of Florida released on Sunday showed Biden with the support of 54% of the state’s Latino voters, compared with 62% for Clinton four years ago. He and Trump were basically tied among Hispanic men in the state. Last week another Florida poll, from NBC News/Marist College, found Biden trailing among likely Latino voters, 52%-46%.
Hispanic voters in general have long shown less partisan loyalty overall than white and Black voters typically do, and they are more inclined to express ambivalence about their choices in an election.
Biden is competitive among Latino voters, and could still win Florida based on his strength with educated white ones. But he would be in better shape, campaign aides privately acknowledged, if the campaign had reached out earlier to recruit infrequent voters and soften Trump’s support among Hispanic men in the state.
Even as Biden’s campaign intensified its phone-bank efforts and Spanish-language advertising in Puerto Rican communities in Florida and North Carolina over the weekend, it was clear to many involved that time had run out.
“The Biden people have done a good job in playing catch-up, but it is always the same, every cycle,” said Chuck Rocha, who runs Nuestro PAC, a pro-Biden committee that has raised $9 million for Spanish-language advertising and get-out-the-vote efforts. “Everybody only does Latino outreach in the last couple of weeks of the campaign. That has to change.”
Julián Castro, a former mayor of San Antonio whose unsuccessful run for the Democratic presidential nomination was rooted in an appeal to Latino voters, said his party “needs to do much more.”
“There needs to be a yearlong, consistent effort to turn people out, and to reach voters who are harder to get — especially in Arizona and Texas, which are so close for us now,” Castro added.
The coronavirus has also been an impediment, said Castro, the secretary of housing and urban development under President Barack Obama and now an adviser to Biden. “Latino voters like in-person contact,” he said.
The overall problem is rooted not only in the party’s inconsistent efforts to reach Latino voters, but also in the particulars of Biden’s primary campaign. It was a cash-poor operation that was focused on Black voters, who turned out to be critical to his primary victory.
Biden’s Hispanic outreach, like other parts of his campaign, did not really get rolling until the summer, when his lackluster fundraising operation turned around, and he hired Julie Chávez Rodríguez, granddaughter of the labor leader César Chávez, to oversee it.
Still, the party has seen some successes. The Democratic National Committee invested heavily in microtargeting Puerto Rican voters through the purchase of call lists in 2019, and Biden owes his surprising strength in Texas and Arizona to strong support from Latino voters.
Democratic officials say they expected that 9 million Latino voters will have gone to the polls early by mail or in person, up from 3.7 million in 2016. Many of those voters are new — 500,000 of the 2 million Latino voters who have voted early in Texas were there for the first time, according to a person who worked on the effort.
Democrats have also recently begun pouring money and resources into outreach, with donors pumping $28 million into three independent expenditure groups aimed at increasing Latino turnout in the past two months. That includes a recent influx of cash from Michael R. Bloomberg, the former New York mayor, and Priorities USA, a leading pro-Biden super PAC.
Thanks to those funds, the Biden campaign has been able to increase its Spanish-language media buys in the closing weeks, with six-figure expenditures booked in Florida, Arizona and Pennsylvania, a spokesman said.
Biden has also made multiple trips to Florida, and surrogates like Castro have been crisscrossing the Sun Belt to stoke turnout. Last week the campaign sent Sen. Kamala Harris, his running mate, for a high-profile tour of the Rio Grande Valley of Texas, even though Biden has not campaigned in the state, a big prize many in his campaign still view as a reach.
But much of the Democrats’ resources in the closing days is being devoted to providing basic voting information to registered Latino voters, party officials said.
“In our field conversations we’re making sure they have all the information they need to follow through on their voting plan,” said Tom Perez, chairman of the Democratic National Committee.
As Election Day drew near, the party and campaign officials converged on a single message: steering voters to voyavotar.com, a web portal with polling place information in Spanish.
The effort has been especially intense in Arizona and along Florida’s Interstate-4 corridor, which crosses the middle of the state. The campaign has also boosted its efforts in parts of Pennsylvania.
The work is labor intensive.
On Saturday, Veronica Escobar, the Democratic congresswoman from El Paso, spent 20 minutes on the phone with a young Mexican American woman in Texas who was outraged at Trump’s response to the pandemic and frightened by his rhetoric — and had no intention, whatsoever, of voting.
The key for Escobar was offering the 24-year-old woman, who had registered at 18 but never voted, step-by-step instructions on how to cast a ballot for Biden.
“When I was done, she said to me, ‘Thank you for doing this, I’ve wanted to vote for a long time, but I was too embarrassed to ask somebody how to do it,’” recalled Escobar, who helped fund part of a last-minute, $50,000 phone-bank effort to reach Latino voters out of her campaign coffers.
Still, Biden faces significant challenges if he wants to match or improve on Clinton’s numbers among Latino voters.
In Florida, Biden needs non-Cuban Hispanics to grow his support among the state’s Latino voters. Many of them live in Miami-Dade County and have not cast ballots at the same rate as Republican-leaning Cubans.
About 45% of Puerto Rican voters had cast ballots in Miami-Dade as of Saturday, according to an analysis by Hawkfish, a Democratic technology and data firm, compared with 58% of other Hispanic voters and 62% of Cuban-American voters. Trump has made inroads especially with newer Cuban immigrants.
Democrats are relying on many Latino voters to go to the polls on Election Day, as they have tended to do in the past.
“That’s the thing with Miami: It’s hard to predict, because people decide late,” said state Sen. José Javier Rodríguez, D-Miami, who is Cuban-American.
On Sunday, Trump held a midnight rally at the Opa-locka airport, near the Cuban-American enclaves of Hialeah and Miami Lakes. The warm-up acts featured a performance by the Cuban trio Los 3 de La Habana, whose song “Canción de Trump” has become ubiquitous in Miami.
Cary Hidalgo, 57, called the election a choice between “the lesser of two evils, same as last election,” in which she voted for Trump.
This year, she again voted for him. “He’s not a politician. He’s uncouth. He has no tact,” Hidalgo, a Cuban-American financial aid officer at a vocational school, said of Trump.
“But I don’t like the fact that I feel Biden and the Democrat Party at this point is leaning toward socialistic views. I don’t agree with that,” Hidalgo said. “That’s what my father left his country for.”
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Primaries & caucuses; Hispanic Americans; Spanish language; Polls & surveys; Recall of government officials; Political campaigns; Presidential elections; Candidates; Voter behavior

Location: Texas; New York; Arizona; Pennsylvania; Florida; United States--US

People: Biden, Joseph R Jr; Obama, Barack

Company / organization: Name: Democratic National Committee; NAICS: 813940

Identifier / keyword: United States; Medicine And Health; Epidemics; Labor And Jobs; Arts, Culture And Entertainment; Culture (Arts); Conflict, War And Peace; Presidential Elections (Us); International Relations; Politics And Government; Land Use Policies; Social Conditions And Trends; Race And Ethnicity; Wisconsin; Venezuela; Texas; Sun Belt States (Us); San Antonio (Tex); Rio Grande Valley (Tex); Puerto Rico; Pennsylvania; North Carolina; New York City; Miami Dade County (Fla); Miami (Fla); Hialeah (Fla); Florida; El Paso (Tex); Cuba; Colombia; Arizona; Priorities Usa; National Broadcasting Co; Housing And Urban Development Department; Habana; Democratic Party; Democratic National Committee; Trump, Donald J; Praeli, Lorella; Perez, Thomas E; Obama, Barack; Harris, Kamala D; Escobar, Veronica; Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Castro, Julian; Castro (Jeweler); Bloomberg, Michael R; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Vice Presidents And Vice Presidency (Us); Mexican Americans; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Area Planning And Renewal; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Language And Languages; Single Persons; Cuban Americans; Shutdowns (Institutional); George Floyd Protests (2020); Spanish Language; Primaries And Caucuses; United States International Relations; Political Action Committees; States (Us); Hispanic Americans; Voting And Voters; United States Politics And Government; Campaign Finance; Elections; Polls And Public Opinion; Black People

Title: Has Biden Taken Hispanic Voters for Granted?

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 2, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-02 @ 20:56

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2456676091

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/has-biden-taken-hispanic-voters-granted/docview/2456676091/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 2, 2020

Last updated: 2022-09-06

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 29 of 34

Can Biden Regain Lost Ground With Latinos?

Author: Mazzei, Patricia; Thrush, Glenn; Russonello, Giovanni

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/can-biden-regain-lost-ground-with-latinos/docview/2456676090/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=Can+Biden+Regain+Lost+Ground+With+Latinos%3F&amp;aulast=Mazzei%2C+Patricia%3BThrush%2C+Glenn%3BRussonello%2C+Giovanni&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
MIAMI — Despite a late push to court Latino voters over the past several weeks, Joe Biden is ending his presidential bid on shaky and perhaps perilous ground with this diverse, essential segment of the electorate, according to interviews with Democratic officials, community activists and voters.
Several of the battleground states on a knife’s edge ahead of Election Day — Florida, Texas, Arizona and even Pennsylvania — have large Latino populations. If Biden loses those states, let alone the election, the Democratic Party’s post-mortem will surely include this question:
Did Biden do too little, too late to court Latino voters?
“There’s more we could have done on our side, there is more the Biden campaign should have done, as a party we are always so late to the game,” said Lorella Praeli, president of Community Change Action, a Washington-based progressive group that has been trying to mobilize Latino voters.
“We are always leaving people on the table, we are always leaving power on the table,” she added.
Polling in battleground states this fall has generally shown Biden leading President Donald Trump among Hispanic voters, but not in every case — and rarely by the same margin that Clinton commanded in 2016, especially among Hispanic men.
The picture is especially dicey for Biden in Florida. Trump and his team have aggressively courted conservatives in the Cuban, Venezuelan and Colombian communities around Miami for years, hoping to offset their losses among suburbanites and seniors in the state.
His closing message — that Biden is the captive of “radicals” and “socialists” — resonates deeply in the anti-Castro Cuban community, and Trump wrapped up Saturday’s five-rally day in Opa-locka, once home to a relocation center for refugees from the island.
A New York Times/Siena College poll of Florida released on Sunday showed Biden with the support of 54% of the state’s Latino voters, compared with 62% for Clinton four years ago. He and Trump were basically tied among Hispanic men in the state. Last week another Florida poll, from NBC News/Marist College, found Biden trailing among likely Latino voters, 52%-46%.
Hispanic voters in general have long shown less partisan loyalty overall than white and Black voters typically do, and they are more inclined to express ambivalence about their choices in an election.
Biden is competitive among Latino voters, and could still win Florida based on his strength with educated whites. But he would be in better shape, campaign aides privately acknowledged, if the campaign had reached out earlier to recruit infrequent voters and soften Trump’s support among Hispanic men in the state.
Even as Biden’s campaign intensified its phone-bank efforts and Spanish-language advertising in Puerto Rican communities in Florida and North Carolina over the weekend, it was clear to many involved that time had run out.
“The Biden people have done a good job in playing catch-up, but it is always the same, every cycle,” said Chuck Rocha, who runs Nuestro PAC, a pro-Biden committee that has raised $9 million for Spanish-language advertising and get-out-the-vote efforts. “Everybody only does Latino outreach in the last couple of weeks of the campaign. That has to change.”
Julián Castro, a former mayor of San Antonio whose unsuccessful run for the Democratic presidential nomination was rooted in an appeal to Latino voters, said his party “needs to do much more.”
“There needs to be a yearlong, consistent effort to turn people out, and to reach voters who are harder to get — especially in Arizona and Texas, which are so close for us now,” Castro added.
The coronavirus has also been an impediment, said Castro, the secretary of housing and urban development under President Barack Obama and now an adviser to Biden. “Latino voters like in-person contact,” he said.
The overall problem is rooted not only in the party’s inconsistent efforts to reach Latino voters, but also in the particulars of Biden’s primary campaign. It was a cash-poor operation that was focused on Black voters, a group long courted by the former vice president that turned out to be critical to his primary victory.
Biden’s Hispanic outreach operation, like other parts of his campaign, did not really get rolling until the summer, when his lackluster fundraising operation turned around, and he hired Julie Chávez Rodríguez, granddaughter of the labor leader César Chávez, to oversee it.
Still, the party has seen some successes. The Democratic National Committee invested heavily in microtargeting Puerto Rican voters through the purchase of call lists in 2019, and Biden owes his surprising strength in Texas and Arizona to strong support from Latino voters.
Democratic officials say they expected that 9 million Latino voters will have gone to the polls early by mail or in person, up from 3.7 million in 2016. Many of those voters are new — 500,000 of the 2 million Latino voters who have voted early in Texas were there for the first time, according to a person who worked on the effort.
Democrats have also recently begun pouring money and resources into outreach efforts, with donors pumping $28 million into three independent expenditure groups aimed at increasing Latino turnout in the past two months. That includes a recent influx of cash from Michael R. Bloomberg, the former New York mayor, and Priorities USA, a leading pro-Biden super PAC.
Thanks to those funds, the Biden campaign has been able to increase its Spanish-language media buys in the closing weeks, with six-figure expenditures booked in Florida, Arizona and Pennsylvania, a spokesman said.
Biden has also made multiple trips to Florida, and surrogates like Castro have been crisscrossing the Sun Belt to stoke turnout. Last week the campaign dispatched Sen. Kamala Harris, his running mate, for a high-profile tour of the Rio Grande Valley of Texas, even though Biden himself has not campaigned in the state, a big prize many in his campaign still view as a reach.
But much of the Democrats’ resources in the closing days is being devoted to providing basic voting information to registered Latino voters, , rather than funding a deeper dive into the voter files to reach more voters, or a big effort to change the minds of wavering male voters party officials said.
“In our field conversations we’re making sure they have all the information they need to follow through on their voting plan,” said Tom Perez, chairman of the Democratic National Committee.
As Election Day drew near, the party and campaign officials converged on a single message: steering voters to voyavotar.com, a web portal with polling place information in Spanish.
The effort has been especially intense in Arizona and along Florida’s Interstate-4 corridor, which crosses the middle of the state. The campaign has also boosted its efforts in parts of Pennsylvania, where dozens of volunteers canvassed voter lists to target Puerto Ricans who have recently moved to the state, a small but potentially significant pool of votes in the critical battleground.
The work is labor intensive.
On Saturday, Veronica Escobar, the Democratic congresswoman from El Paso, spent 20 minutes on the phone with a young Mexican American woman in Texas who was outraged at Trump’s response to the pandemic and frightened by his rhetoric — and had no intention, whatsoever, of voting.
It often takes a lot of effort to persuade such voters, but the key for Escobar was offering the 24-year-old woman, who had registered at 18 but never voted, step-by-step instructions on how to cast a ballot for Biden.
“When I was done, she said to me, ‘Thank you for doing this, I’ve wanted to vote for a long time, but I was too embarrassed to ask somebody how to do it,’” recalled Escobar, who helped fund part of a last-minute, $50,000 phone-bank effort to reach Latino voters on behalf of Biden and other Democrats out of her campaign coffers.
Still, Biden faces significant challenges if he wants to match or improve on Clinton’s numbers among Latino voters.
In Florida, Biden needs non-Cuban Hispanics, such as Puerto Ricans, Mexicans, Dominicans and others, to grow his support among the state’s Latino voters. Many of those voters, however, live in Miami-Dade County and have not cast ballots at the same rate as Republican-leaning Cubans.
About 45% of Puerto Rican voters had cast ballots in Miami-Dade as of Saturday, according to an analysis by Hawkfish, a Democratic technology and data firm, compared with 58% of other Hispanic voters and 62% of Cuban-American voters. Trump has made inroads especially with newer Cuban immigrants.
Democrats are relying on many Latino voters to go to the polls on Election Day, as they have tended to do in the past.
“That’s the thing with Miami: It’s hard to predict, because people decide late,” said state Sen. José Javier Rodríguez, D-Miami, who is Cuban-American.
On Sunday, Trump held a midnight rally at the Opa-locka airport, near the Cuban-American enclaves of Hialeah and Miami Lakes. The warm-up acts featured a performance by the Cuban trio Los 3 de La Habana, whose song “Canción de Trump” has become ubiquitous in Miami and made it into a Spanish-language ad that Trump’s campaign has put atop its YouTube page.
Cary Hidalgo, 57, called the election a choice between “the lesser of two evils, same as last election,” in which she voted for Trump.
This year, she again voted for him. “He’s not a politician. He’s uncouth. He has no tact,” Hidalgo, a financial aid officer at a vocational school, said of Trump.
“But I don’t like the fact that I feel Biden and the Democrat Party at this point is leaning toward socialistic views. I don’t agree with that,” said Hidalgo, who is Cuban-American. “That’s what my father left his country for.”
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Primaries & caucuses; Spanish language; Hispanic Americans; Polls & surveys; Recall of government officials; Political campaigns; Presidential elections; Candidates; Voter behavior

Location: Texas; New York; Arizona; Pennsylvania; Florida; United States--US

People: Biden, Joseph R Jr; Obama, Barack

Company / organization: Name: Democratic National Committee; NAICS: 813940

Identifier / keyword: United States; Medicine And Health; Epidemics; Labor And Jobs; Arts, Culture And Entertainment; Culture (Arts); Conflict, War And Peace; Presidential Elections (Us); International Relations; Politics And Government; Land Use Policies; Social Conditions And Trends; Race And Ethnicity; Wisconsin; Venezuela; Texas; Sun Belt States (Us); San Antonio (Tex); Rio Grande Valley (Tex); Puerto Rico; Pennsylvania; North Carolina; New York City; Miami Dade County (Fla); Miami (Fla); Hialeah (Fla); Florida; El Paso (Tex); Cuba; Colombia; Arizona; Priorities Usa; National Broadcasting Co; Housing And Urban Development Department; Habana; Democratic Party; Democratic National Committee; Trump, Donald J; Praeli, Lorella; Perez, Thomas E; Obama, Barack; Harris, Kamala D; Escobar, Veronica; Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Castro, Julian; Castro (Jeweler); Bloomberg, Michael R; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Vice Presidents And Vice Presidency (Us); Mexican Americans; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Area Planning And Renewal; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Language And Languages; Single Persons; Cuban Americans; Shutdowns (Institutional); George Floyd Protests (2020); Spanish Language; Primaries And Caucuses; United States International Relations; Political Action Committees; States (Us); Hispanic Americans; Voting And Voters; United States Politics And Government; Campaign Finance; Elections; Polls And Public Opinion; Black People

Title: Can Biden Regain Lost Ground With Latinos?

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 2, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-02 @ 22:30

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2456676090

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/can-biden-regain-lost-ground-with-latinos/docview/2456676090/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 2, 2020

Last updated: 2022-09-06

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 30 of 34

A Country Facing High Joblessness, Virus Rates and Anxiety Picks Its President

Author: Searcey, Dionne; Badger, Emily; Cohen, Patricia; Smith, Mitch

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/country-facing-high-joblessness-virus-rates/docview/2456676081/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=A+Country+Facing+High+Joblessness%2C+Virus+Rates+and+Anxiety+Picks+Its+President&amp;aulast=Searcey%2C+Dionne%3BBadger%2C+Emily%3BCohen%2C+Patricia%3BSmith%2C+Mitch&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
OMAHA, Neb. — A nation with nearly 8% unemployment and mourning more than 231,000 COVID-19 deaths, where 4 out of 5 Americans say they feel nervous about the country’s future, gets a final chance Tuesday to decide which candidate is best equipped to lead it past those daunting numbers.
The division and anxiety are evident in conversations among voters in long lines outside early voting places and across browning autumn lawns where warring yard signs pit neighbor against neighbor. Here in the middle of the country, where case counts are surging and college football games were postponed after much angst this past weekend, the worry is all connected, from people on either side of the political chasm.
The coronavirus trends are especially pronounced in several battleground states, including Wisconsin and Michigan, which Joe Biden is fighting to win back for the Democrats after President Donald Trump’s victories there in 2016, and where infection rates were ticking up as the calendar wound down.
A fundamental unease about the country hovers over most other concerns voters describe as they cast ballots: The future of America troubles them more than whether they may lose a job in this recession, whether they could become ill in this pandemic, whether they could personally be harmed by violent crime.
In national polling by The New York Times and Siena College, voters across the political spectrum say they worry that the next generation of Americans will be worse off. And they are concerned America could lose its democracy.
That sentiment means different things to voters on the left and the right. Republicans describe fears of creeping socialism from within the Democratic Party and deep changes in American values amid protests against police and historical figures. Democrats fear threats to democracy from within the White House itself, as they describe Trump undermining the country’s institutions and rule of law.
Other opinion polling leading up to the election has shown Americans deeply divided not just on which candidate they support in the election, but also on questions that have become inseparable from partisan politics this year.
Democrats believe the worst of the coronavirus pandemic is yet to come; Republicans believe the worst is already behind the country. Democrats, by broad margins, approve of the Black Lives Matter movement; Republicans, to a comparable degree, have denounced it.
Voters in the two parties disagree on the outlook for the economy, the importance of wearing masks and even whether schools should reopen in person.
They even see different realities in their personal lives: Just 1 in 5 Democrats said they were personally better off than four years ago, in a recent Times/Siena national poll. Nearly 9 in 10 Republicans said they were better off at the end of the first Trump administration.
Heading into Election Day in 2016, the presidential candidates — and the country — were facing an economy that was pointed upward. There had been 79 months of uninterrupted private-sector job gains, the unemployment rate was running below 5% for the first time since the start of the Great Recession, wages were growing and there were high levels of consumer confidence.
Today, the economic picture looks very different. The official unemployment rate in September was 7.9%, and more than 12.6 million people are unemployed — 5 million more than when Trump took office.
There has been progress since the spring, when the spreading pandemic shut down the economy and virtually halted commerce. But the improvements, fueled in part by $2.2 trillion in government assistance to individuals and businesses, are fading. Hundreds of thousands of new jobless claims are reported every week at levels that still eclipse previous records.
Several major companies have said they expect another wave of layoffs and furloughs. Wall Street analysts warn that growth is likely to continue to slow, leaving the economy about 2.5% smaller than it was last year.
In several battleground states, including Pennsylvania (8.1%), Texas (8.3%), Ohio (8.4%), Michigan (8.5%) and Nevada (12.6%), the jobless rate is higher than the national average. Others are faring better, with Wisconsin at 5.4%, Georgia at 6.4% and North Carolina at 7.3%. All, though, are in much worse shape than they were a year ago.
Through most of the Trump administration, views of the economy closely tracked political preferences. Republicans could be counted on to have optimistic views about the economy and give Trump the credit, while Democrats had a much more negative outlook on the country’s prospects and Trump’s effect on them.
“People’s views of the economy are always colored by party identification,” said Lynn Vavreck, a political scientist at UCLA.
Republicans remain more positive than Democrats, but overall confidence in the economy is low, according to Gallup Polls from mid-October, and only 28% of those surveyed approved of the way things were going in the United States.
Vavreck said that in this unusual year, handling of the economy and handling of the pandemic were joined together in a way that is difficult to peel apart.
But, she added, “there is a robust relationship between the actual economy and election outcomes.”
In Nebraska, the jobless rate in September was 3.5%, not that far off its rate last September and the lowest in the country. Many supporters of the president here tout the nation’s economy overall as one reason they plan to vote for him. They blame economic woes on the pandemic, which they think was outside his control.
“Trump has improved the economy and once they get a vaccine, I’m sure the economy will go back up again,” said Eli Duberow, 42, from Lincoln, Nebraska, as he was waiting for Trump’s rally in Omaha to start last week.
On top of economic and election worries, America is facing a pandemic with a growing number of victims; 9.3 million Americans have been infected.
Nebraska, which splits its Electoral College votes and has been a focal point for Trump, has averaged more than 1,100 coronavirus cases per day over the past week, the most of any point in the pandemic.
That, rather than the pandemic’s economic toll, is more present in the minds of some Nebraska voters — along with, for Republicans, the creep of socialism, and for Democrats, improvements to health care.
In the state’s 2nd Congressional District race in Omaha’s metropolitan area, the Democratic candidate, Kara Eastman, is being painted by her opponent as a radical socialist. Her Republican rival, Don Bacon, whom she has framed as heartless for not supporting COVID relief funds, had planned for an in-person election night hotel party, but switched it to a scaled-back event for staff and family as new coronavirus cases surged.
Across the country, the virus outlook is bleak and getting bleaker. Infection numbers are trending upward in 41 states, and more than 20 states have set weekly case records in recent days. The nation has averaged more than 82,000 cases per day over the past week, the most yet. Deaths, which tend to lag cases, have climbed more slowly to about 800 daily, still well below the spring peak.
Much of the recent increase has been driven by explosive growth in the same Northern battleground states that could decide the presidential race.
The situation is especially dire in Wisconsin and Iowa, which are third and fifth nationally in recent cases per capita. Ten of the country’s 17 metro areas with the highest rates of new cases over the past two weeks are in Wisconsin. More than 14,000 cases were announced in Iowa in the seven-day period ending Sunday, the most in any weeklong stretch of the pandemic.
Minnesota, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan are all seeing worrisome rises. Cases have also reached record levels in the Omaha area, where Trump held a rally last week that drew thousands of mostly unmasked attendees.
In the Southern battlegrounds, the picture is somewhat more encouraging, though still not good. Cases are rising in Arizona, Florida and Texas, but so far remain below the peak levels seen this summer. In Georgia, which has also improved since summer, reports of new infections have leveled off in recent days. But in North Carolina, new cases and deaths are still emerging near record levels.
Worries about voter fraud, disinformation, misinformation, possible violence and disruptions to ballot casting are also troubling many Americans. But in Omaha the recent culprit of a more than hourlong halt to early voting at the Douglas County Elections Commission was less nefarious: a squirrel had chewed through electric equipment.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Economic conditions; Unemployment; Presidential elections; Coronaviruses; COVID-19

Business indexing term: Subject: Economic conditions Unemployment

Location: Texas; Wisconsin; New York; Ohio; Georgia; Pennsylvania; North Carolina; Nebraska; Michigan; Iowa; United States--US

People: Trump, Donald J; Biden, Joseph R Jr

Identifier / keyword: Epidemics; Police; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Finances; Insurance; Presidential Elections (Us); Elections; Politics And Government; Athletics And Sports; College Athletics; Medicine And Health; Economy, Business And Finance; Social Conditions And Trends; Labor And Jobs; Wisconsin; United States; Texas; Pennsylvania; Omaha (Neb); Ohio; North Carolina; Nevada; Nebraska; Minnesota; Michigan; Lincoln (Neb); Iowa; Georgia; Florida; University Of California, Los Angeles; Siena College; Republican Party; New York Times; House Of Representatives; Democratic Party; Trump, Donald J; Searcey, Dionne; Eastman, Kara H; Douglas, Stephen A; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Bacon, Don (1963 ); Law And Legislation; Rumors And Misinformation; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Black People; Deaths (Fatalities); Murals; Football (College); George Floyd Protests (2020); Race And Ethnicity; Seasons And Months; Unemployment Insurance; Elections, Ho use Of Representatives; Layoffs And Job Reductions; Unemployment; Voting And Voters; Polls And Public Opinion; Recession And Depression; States (Us); Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); United States Politics And Government; Economic Conditions And Trends; Disease Rates; United States Economy

Title: A Country Facing High Joblessness, Virus Rates and Anxiety Picks Its President

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 2, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-02 @ 22:24

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2456676081

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/country-facing-high-joblessness-virus-rates/docview/2456676081/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 2, 2020

Last updated: 2022-09-06

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 31 of 34

Graham and Harrison Battle Over the ‘New South,’ in Their Final Appeals

Author: Ruiz, Rebecca R

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/graham-harrison-battle-over-new-south-their-final/docview/2456565135/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=Graham+and+Harrison+Battle+Over+the+%E2%80%98New+South%2C%E2%80%99+in+Their+Final+Appeals&amp;aulast=Ruiz%2C+Rebecca+R&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
CHARLESTON, S.C. — Sen. Lindsey Graham’s comments that Black people can succeed without limits in South Carolina if they are conservative and that young women can excel if they follow a “traditional family structure” have framed the final arguments of the costly Senate campaign here.
Graham, a Republican seeking his fourth Senate term, has sped across South Carolina on a bus tour, imploring voters not to be tricked into abandoning him. Jaime Harrison, his Democratic opponent, has called the veteran senator a relic and is dominating the airwaves, powered by record-shattering fundraising.
To Harrison, Graham’s comments on Black South Carolinians and women encapsulate what he has framed as competing visions of the South, one that looks backward and another embracing a diverse, inclusive future.
“I think he is a relic of 1950,” Harrison said of Graham, who has led the race by modest margins in some polls.
The incumbent appeared to embrace the role in which Harrison had cast him, pledging to defend South Carolina’s status quo.
“We’re not going to let our life and our way of life go away Tuesday, and that’s what’s on the ballot,” Graham told supporters at one of his weekend rallies, inspiring some in the crowd to raise campaign signs overhead, face masks dangling from some of their wrists.
With control of the Senate at stake, every competitive Senate race has taken on heightened importance. Republicans now hold a three-seat Senate majority, but the party is expected to lose at least two of those seats, while the Democrats are anticipated to lose one. Democrats from across the country have flooded South Carolina with money, motivated by Graham’s staunch support of President Donald Trump and his stewardship of Justice Amy Coney Barrett’s lightning-fast confirmation to the Supreme Court as Judiciary Committee chairman.
But the same factors that have mobilized the nation’s Democrats to oppose Graham have been used by Graham to rally support in South Carolina, where Trump remains popular and Barrett’s confirmation has been celebrated.
The Senate candidates’ dueling visions for South Carolina mirrored their views on the state of the nation. Graham echoed the president’s broad assurances that the coronavirus would come under control without further lockdowns, hailing Trump’s first term as a success and encouraging people to “imagine four more years” of the president’s policies and judicial picks.
Harrison and his allies invoked surging cases of the virus, struggling businesses, mounting unemployment, and what Rep. James E. Clyburn, the dean of South Carolina’s Democrats, called the Trump administration’s commitment to “turning the clock back on the progress this nation has made.”
Even as Graham aligned himself closely with the president in his final pitch to voters, he acknowledged that he had been among his most vocal critics during the 2016 Republican presidential primaries.
“There’s a lot of drama, and some of it’s self-inflicted,” he said of Trump. “But when you back up, he’s done a great job for the conservative cause.”
Graham and his allies have made his work on the Judiciary Committee central to his appeal for reelection, turning the names of the Supreme Court’s two newest members, Barrett and Brett Kavanaugh, into their loudest battle cry.
“Lindsey Graham, with the Supreme Court nominations, has shown himself to be a big leader. If we don’t get him back in, it’s going to be a serious problem,” said Mike Bales of Hanahan, South Carolina, who attended a rally with his wife Catherine and their young son. “Our freedoms and our way of life is at stake.”
As Lin Bennett, a Republican state representative, warmed up the crowd before the senator stepped off the bus in Charleston, she made a similar pitch. “I know some of y’all have been disappointed with him, but he has done a great job — look at the judges that he’s putting on the courts,” Bennett said.
Stumping for Harrison over the weekend, Clyburn said the Republican Senate had “aided and abetted” the president in neglecting the welfare of Americans because it had been “more preoccupied” with confirming judges as fast as possible.
“They have been confirming them to lifetime appointments just because they can,” he said. “Rather than be concerned about everyday people’s lives, they are concerned about an ideology.”
Harrison, a mentee of Clyburn’s who first reached out to the congressman when he was in high school, tried to keep the focus closer to home.
“It’s so funny that he wants to make the judiciary an issue,” he said of Graham. “Why doesn’t he make getting the Charleston loophole bill an issue?” referring to gun-control legislation drafted to close a loophole that allowed a white supremacist with a criminal record to buy a handgun that he used to slaughter Black parishioners at Charleston’s storied Mother Emanuel AME Church in 2015.
Pressed on Trump’s record of judicial appointments, Harrison did not say whether he would have supported the confirmations of Kavanaugh and Barrett.
In a race in which a staggering amount of money has been spent, each camp’s eleventh-hour pitch sought to paint the other as beholden to special interests: Harrison’s supporters waved “For Sale” signs with Graham’s name at a drive-in rally in North Charleston on Sunday; Graham called Harrison the favored candidate of “New York and California,” arguing that even if his opponent opposed defunding the police, some of his donors might not.
Supporters at each man’s rallies said they were confident about their candidate’s chances.
“South Carolina is red to the roots,” said Beverly Owensby, a past president of the South Carolina Federation of Republican Women, who said she had traveled to Washington to support Barrett’s nomination this fall.
Carlette Geddis, who attended one of Harrison’s events in Hollywood, South Carolina, said, “I feel, with Jaime, we have someone who can win this election and make a difference.” She was decked out in the colors of Alpha Kappa Alpha, the historically Black sorority to which Sen. Kamala Harris also belonged. “He’s homegrown, just like Lindsey is, but I’m looking at the issues, and what Jaime’s talking about is what I like for my country.”
Some Democrats expressed concern about a protracted vote-counting process or potential voter suppression in South Carolina, a state that requires government-issued photo identification to vote. Harrison said Sunday that his campaign had a team of lawyers standing by.
“We know the tricks of the trade that the other side are going to try to do in order to save this race,” he said.
Graham was just ready for the advertising blitz against him to end.
“Don’t you miss car commercials?” he asked. “I can’t wait to see a car commercial.”
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Nominations; Political campaigns; Presidents; Firearm laws & regulations; Congressional elections; Political advertising; Judiciary; Judges & magistrates; White supremacy

Location: South Carolina; New York; United States--US

People: Graham, Lindsey; Harrison, Jaime

Company / organization: Name: Senate; NAICS: 921120

Identifier / keyword: Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Conflict, War And Peace; United States Politics And Government; Presidential Elections (Us); Transportation; Transit Systems; Advertising And Marketing; Economy, Business And Finance; Finances; Horizontal Terms; Social Conditions And Trends; Crime, Law And Justice; Criminal Justice; Crime And Criminals; Hate Crimes; Elections; United States; Southern States (Us); South Carolina; North Charleston (Sc); New York State; Charleston (Sc); California; Supreme Court (Us); Senate Committee On The Judiciary; Senate; Republican Party; Democratic Party; Alpha Kappa Alpha; Trump, Donald J; Kavanaugh, Brett M; Harrison, Jaime R (1976 ); Harris, Kamala D; Graham, Lindsey; Clyburn, James E; Barrett, Amy Coney; Black Lives Matter Movement; Courts And The Judiciary; Police; Buses; Budgets And Budgeting; Primaries And Caucuses; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Charleston, Sc, Shooting (2015); Political Advertising; Race And Ethnicity; Polls And Public Opinion; Campaign Finance; Elections, State Legislature; Elections, House Of Representatives; Elections, Senate; Appointments And Executive Changes; George Floyd Protests (2020); Politics And Government; Police Reform; Black People

Title: Graham and Harrison Battle Over the ‘New South,’ in Their Final Appeals

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 2, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-02 @ 18:06

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2456565135

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/graham-harrison-battle-over-new-south-their-final/docview/2456565135/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 2, 2020

Last updated: 2022-10-14

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 32 of 34

Macy’s, Saks and Small Stores Brace for Potential NYC Unrest

Author: Gold, Michael; Watkins, Ali

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/macy-s-saks-small-stores-brace-potential-nyc/docview/2456479012/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=Macy%E2%80%99s%2C+Saks+and+Small+Stores+Brace+for+Potential+NYC+Unrest&amp;aulast=Gold%2C+Michael%3BWatkins%2C+Ali&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Retail stores; Looting; Central business districts; Neighborhoods; Pandemics; Plywood

Business indexing term: Subject: Retail stores Central business districts

Location: New York City New York; New York; United States--US

Identifier / keyword: Buildings (Structures); Police; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Conflict, War And Peace; Politics And Government; United States Politics And Government; Presidential Elections (Us); Advertisin g And Marketing; Crime, Law And Justice; Economy, Business And Finance; United States; Times Square And 42nd Street (Manhattan, Ny); Soho (Manhattan, Ny); Rodeo Drive (Beverly Hills, Calif); New York City; Manhattan (Nyc); Herald Square (Manhattan, Ny); Grand Concourse (Bronx, Ny); Fulton (Ny); California; Brooklyn (Nyc); Bronx (Nyc); Beverly Hills (Calif); Walt Disney Company; Walmart Stores Inc; Macy's Inc; Foot Locker Inc; Saks Fifth Avenue; Police Department (Nyc); Metro Ag; Joseph (Fashion Label); Fordham University; Chinatown Partnership; Trump, Donald J; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Vandalism; Firearms; Political Advertising; Windows; Looting (Crime); Presidential Election Of 2020; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; George Floyd Protests (2020); Shutdowns (Institutional)

Title: Macy’s, Saks and Small Stores Brace for Potential NYC Unrest

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 2, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-02 @ 18:32

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2456479012

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/macy-s-saks-small-stores-brace-potential-nyc/docview/2456479012/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 2, 2020

Last updated: 2022-09-06

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 33 of 34

Can Raphael Warnock Go From the Pulpit to the Senate?

Author: Fausset, Richard

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/can-raphael-warnock-go-pulpit-senate/docview/2456309900/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=Can+Raphael+Warnock+Go+From+the+Pulpit+to+the+Senate%3F&amp;aulast=Fausset%2C+Richard&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
DALTON, Ga. — On a recent Sunday morning in northwest Georgia, the Rev. Raphael G. Warnock, the South’s most prominent Black preacher and a Democratic candidate for the U.S. Senate, was giving his stump speech, mixing a little laid-back pulpit humor with a searing, Jeremiah-like condemnation of Republicans in the age of Trump.
He castigated them for neglecting “the poorest of the poor” while providing for “the richest of the rich.” He accused them of distracting the country with bigotry and division. He took care to poke fun at himself when he got carried away by emotion. (“Y’all be careful,” he said. “It’s Sunday.”) And he called, as he so often has, for the expansion of the Affordable Care Act.
“I’ve read the Gospels a few times, and Jesus spent a lot of time healing the sick,” he said. “Even those with preexisting conditions.”
Polls show Warnock, 51, leading a crowded field in one of two Senate races in Georgia, running with the same playbook used by his close ally Stacey Abrams, who came tantalizingly close to an upset in the 2018 governor’s race by turning out minorities and younger voters in this demographically changing state.
Warnock brings something else to the table. His position as the senior pastor of the Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta gives him a direct connection to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., who preached at the church, and, by extension, a central place in the nation’s ongoing civil rights conversation.
But the King that animates Warnock’s campaign is not the anodyne figure sometimes portrayed in popular myth. Warnock considers himself a disciple of the flesh-and-blood King, who was not only an avatar of nonviolence, but also a rabble-rousing champion of the poor. And while Georgia, a state not too long removed from its Jim Crow past, may be ready to send a Black senator to Washington, is it willing to elect someone as unabashedly progressive as Warnock, even if he comes to politics as a man of God?
So far, Warnock has benefited from the peculiar nature of his race, an open, multiparty contest that includes two Republicans who are currently splitting the conservative vote, Rep. Doug Collins and Sen. Kelly Loeffler. Matt Lieberman, a Democrat and the son of former Connecticut Sen. Joseph I. Lieberman, has declined to drop out, despite pleas from numerous party leaders.
All of this presents the possibility that no candidate will get a majority of the votes. That would trigger a January runoff, in which Warnock could face off against a single Republican, who would most likely consolidate conservative support.
For now, though, Loeffler and Collins have been so busy attacking each other, and fighting to prove they are the more conservative candidate, that they have had little time to savage Warnock. That has left him free to define himself, emphasizing his up-from-poverty life story in ads.
In one early spot, he walks through the Savannah, Georgia, housing project where he grew up with 11 brothers and sisters, and declares that children there today “have it harder now than I did back then. That’s got to change.”
The ad also underscores his role at Ebenezer, part of his campaign’s full-on embrace of his life in the church — he calls his recent barnstorming campaign the “Rev Up the Vote” tour — and the leap he is trying to make from the pulpit to the Senate.
“There is always a distance between the ideals that we set and the reality of our lives,” he said in a brief interview after a campaign stop in Rome, Georgia. “I think that’s the case of the church, and the covenant we have there, and that’s the case with respect to the American covenant.”
Warnock found his religious calling early in life. Both of his parents were Pentecostal preachers — his father also worked salvaging abandoned cars — and his future vocation seemed so obvious in high school that his friends called him “Rev.”
From there, he built a résumé that made his ascendance at Ebenezer seem preordained. He attended Morehouse College (King’s alma mater), then the Union Theological Seminary in New York City. There he earned advanced degrees and found a mentor in the Rev. Dr. James H. Cone, father of Black liberation theology, a system Cone once described as “an interpretation of the Christian Gospel from the experience and perspectives and lives of people who are at the bottom in society — the lowest economic and racial groups.”
In the 1990s Warnock worked as an assistant pastor at Abyssinian Baptist Church, a spiritual pillar of Harlem, New York, where he spoke out against the work requirements that were central to then-mayor Rudy Giuliani’s welfare reform efforts. Warnock called the program a “hoax” that used welfare recipients “to displace other workers who receive respectable compensation.”
He also took a stand against the emerging genre of gangster rap (“I’ve had to endure that ugly ‘N-word’ for some 400 years now, and enough is enough!” he said), although later, in Atlanta, he would team up on social justice initiatives with rappers like T.I. and 2 Chainz. He continued his social reform work as senior pastor at Douglas Memorial Community Church in Baltimore, where he urged his flock to take HIV tests in an effort to stem an AIDS crisis among African Americans.
In 2005, he moved to Atlanta, becoming only the fifth senior pastor in the storied history of Ebenezer Baptist. It is a job like no other. Ebenezer is a working Black church, with pews filled on Sundays with everyday people engaged in worship and fellowship, showing off the wares of the city’s best tailors and haberdashers. But it is also part of a loose complex of King-related tourist destinations, some run by the National Park Service, in Atlanta’s historic Old Fourth Ward, and it regularly hosts some of the nation’s best-known politicians, both Republican and Democrat, who come to honor and bask in the King legacy.
When Warnock first arrived at Ebenezer, that legacy had rivals. In Atlanta, as elsewhere in the United States, the religious movement known as the “prosperity gospel” was on the rise, with African American preachers like Bishop Eddie L. Long and Rev. Creflo A. Dollar Jr. telling followers that their faith would deliver them material riches.
Warnock was a critic from the beginning. “King didn’t preach to garbage collectors” that “they should ‘name it and claim it,’” he said in a 2005 interview with The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. “He spoke to the social structure that was oppressing the garbage collectors. And for that, he gave his life. To me, that’s what Christian ministry is all about.”
Like King, he sometimes landed in jail. In 2014, he was arrested at the state capitol while protesting Republicans’ refusal to expand Medicaid under Obamacare. In 2017, he was arrested in Washington for protesting proposed budget cuts to social services.
He supports abortion rights and same-sex marriage, and he has publicly defended the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr., who was once the pastor of former President Barack Obama. Wright’s sermon outlining the nation’s past oppression of minorities included the phrase “God damn America,” creating problems in 2008 for Obama during his first presidential campaign. (Warnock has suggested the sermon squared with the “truth-telling tradition of the Black church.”)
Warnock has already come in for criticism from conservative media for comments critical of the police. “We shouldn’t be surprised when we see police officers act like bullies on the street,” he said, in one of a series of clips highlighted by the Fox News host Tucker Carlson.
All of these positions place him firmly on the progressive wing of the Democratic Party, something Republicans are already planning to focus on should he make it to the runoff. “Raphael Warnock has defended radical Jeremiah Wright while trashing police officers,” Stewart Bragg, executive director of the Georgia Republican Party, said Thursday.
Republicans have signaled that they plan to make an issue of his private life, too. Before finalizing his divorce this year, Warnock was accused by his now ex-wife of running over her foot with his car during an argument, an allegation he has denied.
The incident with Warnock’s ex-wife, Bragg said, “is merely the tip of the iceberg of what voters will find out” about him.
Still, Warnock believes he can make converts of some white evangelical voters, given their common faith. He had originally envisioned going to Bible studies on Wednesday nights “with people who don’t share my politics, but we read the same book.” Those plans were stymied by the coronavirus pandemic, but Warnock remains optimistic. “I would hope they would give me a hearing,” he said.
He is also banking on the idea that people of all races will be receptive to his position that Georgia should expand Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act. Georgia is one of a handful of states that have declined to fully expand Medicaid coverage. A partial expansion will roll out in 2021, but advocates for a full expansion, which is opposed by many Republicans, say it would bring coverage to hundreds of thousands of low-income people, and help revive the state’s ailing rural health care system.
The mask-wearing crowd that came to hear Warnock’s Oct. 25 speech outside of a Dalton recreation center numbered about 200, mostly Black but not exclusively so. The pastor’s mix of policy, bonhomie and righteous anger left them electrified. In church terms, they were moved by the spirit.
But not everyone can be so easily moved. As Warnock’s big campaign bus drove out of town, it roared by a few dozen white anti-abortion protesters strung out along a sidewalk near a Chick-fil-A restaurant.
Daniel Hocker, 42, a budget analyst for a real-estate investment company, held up a sign calling for the defunding of Planned Parenthood. He said he could never vote for a candidate who did not oppose abortion.
“I have to vote my conscience,” he said.
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Sanitation services; Christianity; Patient Protection & Affordable Care Act 2010-US; Religion; Theology; Sermons; Budgets; Congressional elections; Welfare; Black churches

Business indexing term: Subject: Patient Protection & Affordable Care Act 2010-US Budgets

Location: New York; United States--US; Georgia; Atlanta Georgia

People: Warnock, Raphael

Company / organization: Name: Senate; NAICS: 921120

Identifier / keyword: Christians And Christianity; Religion And Belief; Clergy; Epidemics; Criminal Justice; Police; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Gender; Women And Girls; Marriages; Conflict, War And Peace; Presidential Elections (Us); Buildings (Structures); Federal Aid (Us); Advertising And Marketing; Economic Conditions And Trends; Homosexuality; Arts, Culture And Entertainment; Culture (Arts); Music; Insurance; Medicine And Health; Mines And Mining; Economy, Business And Finance; Finances; Social Conditions And Trends; Crime, Law And Justice; Law And Legislation; Education; Elections; United States; Southern States (Us); Savannah (Ga); Rome (Ga); New York City; Harlem (Manhattan, Ny); Georgia; Dalton (Ga); Connecticut; Baltimore (Md); Atlanta (Ga); Union Theological Seminary; Senate; Republican Party; Police Department (Nyc); Planned Parenthood Federation Of America; National Park Service; Morehouse College; Fox News Channel; Ebenezer Baptist Church (Atlanta, Ga); Democratic Party; Chick Fil A; Atlanta Journal Constitution; Abyssinian Baptist Church; Wright, Jeremiah A Jr; Warnock, Raphael G; Trump, Donald J; Ti (1980 ); Obama, Barack; Long, Eddie L; Loeffler, Kelly L; Lieberman, Joseph I; King, Martin Luther Jr; Jesus Christ; Giuliani, Rudolph W; Cone, James H; Collins, Douglas A (1966 ); Carlson, Tucker; Abrams, Stacey Y; 2 Chainz; National Parks, Monuments And Seashores; Parks And Other Recreation Areas; Scholarships And Fellowships; Patient Protection And Affordable Care Act (2010); Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Same Sex Marriage, Civil Unions And Domestic Partnerships; Civil Rights Movement (1954 68); Baptist Churches; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Awards, Decorations And Honors; Workers' Compensation Insurance; Homosexuality And Bisexuality; Civil Rights And Liberties; Rap And Hip Hop; Medicaid; Political Advertising; Royal Families; Historic Buildings And Sites; Colleges And Universities; Abortion; Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Health Insurance And Managed Care; Welfare (Us); Federal Budget (Us); Presidential Election Of 2020; Polls And Public Opinion; Budgets And Budgeting; Elections, Governors; United States Economy; Elections, State Legislature; United States Politics And Government; Conservatism (Us Politics); Elections, House Of Representatives; Elections, Senate; Race And Ethnicity; Ministers (Protestant); George Floyd Protests (2020); Politics And Government

Title: Can Raphael Warnock Go From the Pulpit to the Senate?

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 1, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-01 @ 19:19

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2456309900

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/can-raphael-warnock-go-pulpit-senate/docview/2456309900/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 1, 2020

Last updated: 2020-11-06

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Document 34 of 34

Stanford Study Seeks to Quantify Infections Stemming From Trump Rallies

Author: Sheryl Gay Stolberg

https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/stanford-study-seeks-quantify-infections-stemming/docview/2456269183/se-2?accountid=12598

Abstract: None available.

Links: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://resolver.ebscohost.com/openurl?sid=&amp;genre=article&amp;issn=03624331&amp;ISBN=&amp;volume=&amp;issue=&amp;date=2020&amp;spage=&amp;pages=&amp;title=&amp;atitle=Stanford+Study+Seeks+to+Quantify+Infections+Stemming+From+Trump+Rallies&amp;aulast=Sheryl+Gay+Stolberg&amp;id=DOI:

Full text: Enlarge this image.
WASHINGTON — A group of Stanford University economists who created a statistical model estimate that there have been at least 30,000 coronavirus infections and 700 deaths as a result of 18 campaign rallies President Donald Trump held from June to September.
The numbers, which will surely reignite accusations from Democratic leaders and public health officials that the president is putting voters at risk for political gain, are not based on individual cases traced directly to particular campaign events.
Instead, the Stanford researchers, led by B. Douglas Bernheim, chair of the university’s economics department, conducted a regression analysis. They compared the 18 counties where Trump held rallies with as many as 200 counties with similar demographics and similar trajectories of confirmed COVID-19 cases before the rally date.
The events took place from June 20 to Sept. 12; only the first two — in Tulsa, Oklahoma, and Phoenix — were held indoors. The president has held about three dozen additional rallies since the study ended in September.
Based on their models, the researchers concluded that on average, the 18 events produced increases in confirmed cases of more than 250 per 100,000 residents. Extrapolating that figure to the 18 rallies, they concluded that the gatherings ultimately resulted in more than 30,000 confirmed cases of COVID-19 and that the rallies had “likely led to more than 700 deaths,” though those deaths would not necessarily have occurred solely among attendees.
The paper, posted on academic websites and on Twitter by its authors days before the presidential election, is likely to be contentious. Public health officials in states and counties where Trump has held rallies said in interviews this week that it was impossible to tie particular infections or outbreaks to the gatherings for several reasons: Caseloads are rising overall, rally attendees often travel from other locations, contact tracing is not always complete, and contact tracers do not always know where infected people have been.
Judd Deere, a White House spokesperson, dismissed the study as “a politically driven model based on flawed assumptions and meant to shame Trump supporters.”
“As the president has said, the cure cannot be worse than the disease,” Deere said in a statement Saturday. “This country should be open armed with best practices and freedom of choice to limit the spread of COVID-19.”
The study is a “working paper” and has not yet been submitted for peer review, Bernheim said in an interview Saturday. He said it was common practice for economists to post their work online before submitting it to an academic journal so that other experts could comment on it. He said politics was not the motivation for it.
“The motivation for this paper,” he said, “is that there is a debate that is raging about the trade-off between the economic consequences of restrictions and the health consequences of transmission, and as an economist, I take that debate to be both important and appropriate.”
Since the president resumed holding political rallies in June, he has faced intense criticism over them. Public health officials in Tulsa, the site of the first rally, have said a subsequent surge in coronavirus cases was most likely tied to it.
A little more than two weeks after the event, Tulsa recorded 206 new confirmed coronavirus cases in a single day, a record high at the time. Herman Cain, a former Republican presidential candidate, died of COVID-19 after attending the rally, although it is impossible to know whether he was infected there.
Around the country, state and local public health officials have also wrestled with the question of whether Trump’s rallies have become so-called superspreader events. With thousands of people gathered together in close quarters, many not wearing masks, the gatherings provide a fertile environment for the virus to spread.
In Minnesota, for example, state officials traced 16 coronavirus infections and two hospitalizations to a Trump rally on Sept. 18 in the city of Bemidji, in Beltrami County. Trump’s Democratic opponent, Joe Biden, who wears masks and encourages his supporters to do so, held his own campaign event that same day in Duluth; it resulted in one coronavirus infection, but no hospitalizations.
But Doug Schultz, a spokesperson for the Minnesota Department of Health, said that the full extent of the spread that had resulted from those cases was difficult to quantify, because many people who develop COVID-19 are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms and do not seek treatment, and even those who test positive may not respond to contact tracing inquiries.
“What we are seeing in Beltrami County are indicators of transmission, and this is likely just the tip of the iceberg,” Schultz said in an email.
Many Trump supporters have complained that focusing on the risk posed by the president’s rallies ignores the risk posed by other large gatherings, like the Black Lives Matter protests over the summer. But Bernheim said that because the rallies are isolated events with a finite beginning and end, they are “cleaner events to study” than protests, which can occur over several days.
Assessing the risk of campaign rallies is “a noisy process,” Bernheim said, and focusing on a single event is misleading. His paper noted that there had been similar, smaller analyses — including one based on the Tulsa rally that found no significant effect. But, it said, “measuring the average treatment effect over multiple events, as in our study, produces more reliable results.”
Enlarge this image.

Subject: Infections; Contact tracing; Public health; Political campaigns; Election results; Presidential elections; Economists; Coronaviruses; Disease transmission; COVID-19

Business indexing term: Subject: Economists

Location: New York; Minnesota

People: Trump, Donald J

Company / organization: Name: New York Times Co; NAICS: 511110, 511120, 515112, 515120; Name: Stanford University; NAICS: 611310

Identifier / keyword: United States; Epidemics; Crime, Law And Justice; Criminal Justice; Police; Police Brutality, Misconduct And Shootings; Science And Technology; Presidential Elections (Us); Politics And Government; Social Conditions And Trends; Race And Ethnicity; Tulsa (Okla); Phoenix (Ariz); Oklahoma; Minnesota; Duluth (Minn); Twitter; Stanford University; House Of Representatives; Trump, Donald J; Stolberg, Sheryl Gay; Cain, Herman; Biden, Joseph R Jr; Infections; Rumors And Misinformation; Black People; States (Us); Academic And Scientific Journals; Deaths (Fatalities); Medicine And Health; Research; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); United States Politics And Government; Disease Rates; George Floyd Protests (2020); Demonstrations, Protests And Riots; Presidential Election Of 2020

Title: Stanford Study Seeks to Quantify Infections Stemming From Trump Rallies

Publication title: New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.

Publication year: 2020

Publication date: Nov 1, 2020

Dateline: 2020-11-01 @ 14:02

Publisher: New York Times Company

Place of publication: New York, N.Y.

Country of publication: United States, New York, N.Y.

Publication subject: General Interest Periodicals--United States

ISSN: 03624331

Source type: Newspaper

Language of publication: English

Document type: News

ProQuest document ID: 2456269183

Document URL: https://ezproxy.msu.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/stanford-study-seeks-quantify-infections-stemming/docview/2456269183/se-2?accountid=12598

Copyright: Copyright New York Times Company Nov 1, 2020

Last updated: 2020-11-02

Database: U.S. Newsstream

____________________________________________________________

Contact us at: http://about.proquest.com/go/pqissupportcontact
Database copyright © 2024 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
Terms and Conditions: https://www.proquest.com/info/termsAndConditions